How to Improve Your Flirting


Sometimes, even if your intentions are
in line and you’re expressing yourself openly, people won’t always
necessarily perceive you correctly. Communication is always up for
interpretation; therefore, there’s always going to be a chance that
you’ll be misunderstood or people might make incorrect judgments
about you. There’s also a good chance that you aren’t expressing
yourself clearly or effectively.
For instance, you may ask a girl out for
coffee. But perhaps she’s inexperienced or comes from a
conservative background, and so what is a clear statement of
interest from you, appears to her as just an invitation for
friendship.
Or maybe you compliment a woman on her dress.
But for whatever reason, your tonality, and facial expression
aren’t clear and she thinks you’re being sarcastic. Maybe she’s
insecure and very touchy about men complimenting her, so she
responds negatively.
In the long run, misunderstandings and
miscommunications are unavoidable. No matter how clear and how
charming you are there are always going to be women who
misinterpret what you say to them as well as your intentions. This
is a fact of life and something you have to get used to.
But what we can control is how efficiently
and openly we communicate by learning clear and effective
communication skills. The better our communication skills, the more
clearly we can express ourselves and show sexual interest. The more
clearly we express ourselves and show sexual interest, the more
likely we’ll be able to connect with women in a sexual and
emotional way.
It’s sad but true. There are often situations
where a woman will be sexually interested in a man, but their
failure to communicate their intentions to one another clearly will
derail the entire interaction. There’s no excuse to let this
happen.
And as with all of the Three Fundamentals,
you’ll find that clear communication will enhance other areas of
your life — your professional relationships, your family
relationships, your friendships, your networking abilities — just
as much as it enhances your romantic relationships and your ability
to meet and attract women.
First Impressions
First impressions are crucial. Studies show
that we base the majority of our perception of people on the first
few minutes we spend with them. This initial perception can extend
and influence our relationship to the person for weeks or even
months.
If I look at all of the women I’ve dated
seriously, just about all of them (I’d estimate 90% or so), it felt
“on” within the first few minutes of the interaction. We clicked
and that first impression led to a romantic and sexual relationship
further down the line.
The biggest misconception about first
impressions is being overly concerned with what to say to a woman
when you meet her. What you say to her when you first meet her is
actually unimportant, and hopefully by this point in the book, I
don’t have to explain why.
The exact words you say are far less
important than your intentions and level of anxiety.
Ninety percent of the time when I meet a new
woman, I simply say, “Hi, I’m Mark.” I then follow it up with, “I
wanted to meet you.” And if I’m feeling particularly bold, I’ll
say, “I thought you were cute and wanted to meet you.”
That’s it.
You can ask a woman how her day is going, or
say the most perceptive and witty thing to her in the first
minutes, but her first impression is largely going to be based on
how you present yourself (looks/lifestyle; Chapters 7 and 8), your
level of anxiety (anxiety; Chapters 9 and 10), and your ability to
communicate clearly. What actually comes out of your mouth is going
to be forgotten or completely irrelevant within seconds.
With that in mind, here are guidelines for
making a good first impression:
- Do not startle or scare her when you
approach her. This is possibly the only death knell for approaching
women. If you startle her or scare her when she first meets you, in
my experience, there is almost absolutely nothing you can do to
recover. You’re immediately labeled “creepy” and she will do
anything possible to get out of the situation. Even if she’s polite
and talks for a minute, chances are she’s never going to open up
and trust you.


Typical ways guys startle or scare women upon the
approach are by approaching them from behind (huge no-no), grabbing
them violently, screaming at them, or saying something offensive or
weird.
- When in doubt on how to approach a woman, simply
walk up and introduce yourself and explain to her that you wanted
to meet her. I know this sounds drab and boring. But remember, it’s
not about entertaining her; it’s about being non-needy and
expressing your genuine interest in her. During the day, I often
preface the introduction by saying something like, “Excuse me, this
is kind of random...” Also during the day, I usually tell them that
I think they’re cute.

In my experience, the fancier and more creative guys
try to get with their opening lines, the more likely they are to a)
say something weird and b) come off as needy. Think about it, if
you sit around for 10 minutes trying to think of what to say to a
girl so that she’ll like you, how is that ever not needy?


She’ll sense this. In fact, it’s kind of amazing.
Women really do seem to have a sixth sense about this stuff. I’ve
noticed that the longer I hesitate and stare at a girl before I
approach her, the more likely I am to be rejected. The best
approaches I ever do are when I don’t think about it and I
spontaneously just walk up and say hello.


- Don’t linger. If you linger and hover around her,
it’s almost guaranteed to make the approach feel awkward and
forced. Imagine a straight line between you and her, and when
you’re ready to go, follow that straight line until you’re standing
right in front of her. Don’t stand around and kick the dirt at your
feet trying to work up the nerve right next to her.
- Smile. Always smile. Don’t smile like the Joker
from the Batman movies smiles. But smile like you’re a nice,
friendly person. A comfortable smile. Lean back. Stand up tall.
Speak loudly yet clearly. Make strong eye contact. Introduce
yourself and stick out your hand. Give a firm handshake. This is
called being a confident human being.
If you are getting many rejections right on
the initial approach, then it’s one of the following three
things:
1. You’re presenting yourself poorly — i.e., you
dress poorly, bad looks, bad style, bad body language. Review
Chapters 7 and 8 again.
2. Your intentions are off. You’re approaching for
the wrong reasons. The wrong reasons include anything that is not,
“She’s cute. I want to meet her.” That means, approaching for
statistics, approaching for "practice,” approaching to impress your
friends. Approaching because you want to live up to a bunch of crap
you read on the internet. These are all the wrong reasons to
approach. When you see a beautiful woman, you should be motivated
by nothing but your desire to get to know her. That’s it. If you
have trouble finding that motivation, refer back to the section on
sexual anxiety in Chapter 9.
3. You’re not following one of the guidelines above.
You’re startling her. You’re trying too hard to be clever or
interesting. Or you’re doing something technically wrong (not
looking her in the eye, not smiling, etc.)
Like I said, if you have everything together,
you should not be getting rejected often on the opener. I’ve
coached men who still had some major flaws (lack of confidence,
poor looks, anxiety), but having them follow the guidelines above
still got most of the women to at least stop and talk to them for a
second.
And really that’s all the opener is trying to
do: stop them and get them to talk to you for a second. It’s your
conversation skills that get that second to turn into a minute and
that minute to turn into an hour.
Conversation Skills
Developing conversation skills is a deep
topic, and for the sake of this book, I’m only going to gloss over
the most important aspects and the advice that’s easiest to
implement.
The topics that we’ll cover in this section
are:
- Using effective language
- Questions versus statements
- Creating endless conversation topics
- Storytelling
- Basics of emotional connection
Using Effective Language: This is the
easiest “quick fix” that you can apply to your communication
skills. Using effective language means saying what you mean with
the fewest words possible while still maintaining your meaning and
intent.
This is where being a good writer can
actually help you become a good communicator. If you’re saying
something in four sentences that could be said in one, say it in
one. If you are saying something in ten words that can be said in
four, say it in four.
In conversation and communication quality
always wins out over quantity. We would all rather have 30 seconds
of amazing communication than 10 minutes of mediocre
communication saying the same thing.
It also means removing “um,” “uh,” “ah,”
“like,” “you know,” and other fillers from your everyday
speaking.
Removing all fillers 100% of the time is
often impossible (I still drop an “um,” or “you know,”
occasionally), but the more of these you remove, the more clear and
coherent your speaking will be. Nothing screams a lack of
sophistication like somebody who sprinkles “like” and “umm”
throughout his stories constantly.
Read the following two sentences out
loud:
“So, um, I guess what I’m saying is like,
that I never really felt at home when I lived, uh, out there, you
know, in California. The people, uh, just felt kind of like,
superficial to me. And I, um, didn’t like really like it a whole
lot I guess.”
“I never really felt at home in
California. The people felt kind of superficial to me. I didn’t
really like it.”
Notice the difference in the two, notice how
the second feels much more impactful and to-the-point.
You don’t want to speak like a robot either.
You can still use all of the inflections, tonality and pacing on
the second sentence without having to drop “um” and “like” all the
time.
When you read it, you should be able to feel
an immediate difference. The first one feels very casual,
lackadaisical, even lazy and uninterested. The second one feels
serious, stern, powerful, and clear.
Questions versus Statements: Creating
threads of conversation through statement is far more powerful than
questions. This is because it assumes rapport and instantly makes
conversations more personally.
For instance, if you’ve been talking to a
woman at a bar for a few minutes, saying, “I love olives in my
drink. When I was a kid I used to eat them straight out of the
jar,” is far more interesting than, “Do you like olives in your
drink?” and waiting for her response. In fact, that question is
just plain weird. But that statement is interesting, and what many
women would consider “cute.”
Instead of incessant questioning, you want to
develop a skill called cold reading. Cold reading is a skill where
you’re able to intuitively “know” something about someone else
without actually knowing it.
It’s like being a psychic without the
cheesiness.
For our purposes, cold reading is just a way
of creating interesting statements rather than asking questions for
information. You don’t ask the question you want to know, but
instead, you make a mild prediction.
Instead of asking her a question about
herself, you guess the answer to your question and then state it.
Here are some examples:
“Where are you from?” translates to: “You
look like a California girl.”
“What do you do for work?” translates to:
“You seem to be a creative person. I bet your job is
interesting."
“How do you guys know each other?” translates
to: “You guys look like you’ve been friends for a long time.”
In each situation, the statement makes an
educated guess and engages the woman far more than any question
will. Instead of asking her about herself, you’re telling
her about herself. The only thing people love more than talking
about themselves is hearing about themselves. But what if you’re
wrong?
That’s the best part! A lot of guys worry
about cold reading because they’re afraid to state something
incorrect. This is where human nature works in our favor.
There’s no failing with cold reading. With
every cold read, one of three things will happen:
1. You’ll be wrong, and she’ll correct you.
2. You’ll be wrong, and she’ll ask you what made you
think that.
3. You’ll be right, and she’ll freak out at how
perceptive you are.
In the first result, she’ll basically just
answer the question you based your cold read on and forget that you
were wrong.
In the second result, you’ll be wrong, but
she’ll be so intrigued by your guess, that she’ll create a deeper
conversation thread about what you observed about her. Later in the
chapter, we’ll talk about the importance of creating the deepest
threads possible.
In the third result, the few times you get
the cold read correct, she will most likely be surprised at how
perceptive you are about her. This will generate a tidal wave of
rapport immediately and impress her at the same time.
Here are examples of a cold read situation
with all three different responses:


Me: “You look a bit bookish. You must be a
student around here.”
Her: “No, I’m not. But I do love to read,
though.”
Me: “You look a bit bookish. You must be a
student around here.”
Her: “No. What made you think that? Is it my
glasses? I just got them.”
Me: “You look a bit bookish. You must be a
student around here.”
Her: “Yeah, I am! Wow, is it that
obvious?”
You should cold read as much as possible. Any
time you’re asking a question that requires a factual answer, take
a stab at the answer instead of asking.
One night, I met a girl from Chicago. I took
a blind guess at which University she went to and was right. She
couldn’t get over “how perceptive” I was for a good five minutes.
She asked me how I knew and I told her I could tell she was on the
intellectual side although I figured she probably moved because the
school was located in a bad part of the city. Everything was
dead-on despite being educated guesses. From that point on, she
engaged me completely in conversation and was more than excited to
hang out with me again.
Besides that, creating conversations out of
statements protects you from what I call “blanking.” You know when
you are talking to a woman and all the sudden the conversation dies
and you have no idea what to say? You’re sitting there awkwardly
and the more uncomfortable you feel, the harder it is to come up
with something. Eventually, you blurt out something boring like,
“So… where do you live?”
Using statements can prevent this a great
deal. Instead of fishing for a new conversation based on a generic
question, you can simply comment about something or observe
something. Never underestimate the power of non-sequiturs.
“I’m thinking about quitting drinking.” “A
car almost hit me on the way here tonight.” “My roommate eats
peanut butter and mayonnaise sandwiches. It’s disgusting.” “I’ve
always wanted to visit Africa.”
These will sometimes come across as random.
But that’s because they are — they’re whatever thoughts are popping
into your head at the moment. It’s better to be random and
interesting than predictable and boring. Don’t be afraid to just
blurt something out.
This works because unlike questions,
statements require no investment from the other person. You can say
whatever you want and there’s no implicit expectation for her to
generate conversation as well.
Speaking in statements in this fashion — to
generate spontaneous conversation — is important in that it forces
you to share yourself with her. When you simply ask a girl
questions, you aren’t giving any information about yourself, so
it’s harder for her to trust you or build rapport. But if you
simply state a fact about yourself and then talk about it, you are
now sharing yourself and giving her a chance to chime in
with her input as well.
The amazing thing about speaking in
statements is if you do it correctly, she will start asking
you questions. This may not seem like a big deal, but it
actually reorients the entire interaction. As I mentioned earlier,
whoever is asking the questions is sub-communicating a desire to
learn more about the other, i.e., interest, i.e., they’re attracted
to them. If she is constantly seeking information from you, you now
have the power to control the interaction — you control the
information and the conversation.
Endless Conversation Topics: In every
topic of conversation, there are countless opportunities to jump
off onto other topics — there are countless word associations to be
made.
For instance, let’s assume you’re talking to
a woman and she says, “I never liked that restaurant. I went there
on my birthday last year, and I don’t remember anything past
midnight. I woke up on my friend’s kitchen floor.”
This is loaded with opportunities to take the
conversation in new directions. You could relate and talk about any
of the following:
1. The restaurant she doesn’t like.
2. What you did on your last birthday.
3. The last time you got black out drunk.
4. A story about waking up somewhere unusual.
 
Any and all of these topics will be relevant
and interesting to the conversation.
If you don’t already do this, it’s a habit
you need to ingrain in yourself — just as the comedians ingrain
off-the-wall word associations.
Here are a series of examples of statements
that women may make. In them, I have underlined the “jump off”
points. Think of them as intersections where you can choose which
direction to move the conversation. As you read through these
examples, try to come up with a statement to relate to each jump
off point. This will help teach you to be prepared to speak about
any topic on the spot.
1. “I go to Harvard right
now. But I want to move back out west. The
weather’s too cold up here.”
2. “I’m here with my friends Steve
and Carrie. They’ve been dating for six
months, but they fight like a married
couple.”
3. “We work together
downtown in the district. It’s all right, but I’m looking to
change careers.”
4. “We were at this party last
night. It was crazy. The cops ended up
busting it and some drunken kid got
arrested.”
Try re-reading through these examples and at
each underlined word or phrase, try to immediately come up with a
thought or response about it. For example, I see Harvard, and I
think of how one time I visited there and their campus looks like a
palace. I also think of friends of mine who went to Harvard. These
are both legitimate places to take the conversation.
Once you become competent at this, you’ll
notice that this is the way in which every conversation flows.
Conversations only end when one person says something to which the
other person has no jump off points. This is what happens when a
conversation “dies.” If you teach yourself to recognize jump off
points and take advantage of them as soon as possible, you’ll be
able to sustain a conversation with almost anybody
indefinitely.
Combine this skill with the ability to cold
read and create conversational threads out of thin air by making
statements, and you will literally develop the skill to begin and
control any conversation with anybody for any length of time.
Storytelling: Human beings, by
default, are enrapt by stories, or more specifically, a story arc.
Politicians use them to campaign, teachers use them to explain
important concepts, comedians use them to make us laugh, and we use
them constantly in our day-to-day interactions.
But what you probably didn’t notice is that
the best communicators you know are fantastic storytellers.
Have you ever had a friend who would start
telling you about something and it just seemed to go nowhere? Like,
they’d start telling you about their trip to Chicago and after
describing the hotel and maybe mentioning the concierge, the story
just died?
Or have you ever known someone who
consistently makes jokes that don’t completely make sense, or
fizzle out and aren’t funny?
Or maybe you’re one of these people. Do
people ever stop paying attention to you mid-story? Or do you have
trouble making others laugh (intentionally, that is)?
Chances are, these people (or you), aren’t
following a strong story arc. For whatever reason, humans have
evolved to be absolutely fascinated when information is
communicated in a certain pattern. This is true of just about any
culture and background.
There are three main points of a story
arc:
Set Up: The set up is exactly that:
you’re setting the scene or the context for what you’re about to
say. It’s the foundation of what’s about to be told, and if you
don’t set up properly, then your stories, jokes, and ideas will
always seem to be random. People will consistently comment that
you’re really random, weird, or “off the wall.”
Content/Conflict: After setting up
what you’re going to talk about, you get into the actual content.
This can also be the “conflict” in your story. Whatever it is, it’s
something that causes tension and expectancy. The content of your
story needs to be intriguing and hook people into wanting to know
what will happen next. If you don’t build much tension with the
content of your stories, you will find people losing interest or
get the feeling like you ramble on a lot.
Resolution: The resolution releases
the tension from the conflict or content. Resolutions can come in
forms of punchlines (for jokes), conclusions (for ideas), or just
closure for a generic story. People who don’t resolve their stories
and ideas well will often get blank stares when they’re finished
speaking, or people asking them, “Yeah, and…?” not realizing that
the story is finished.
Here’s an example of a story with a setup,
content/conflict, and a resolution:
When I was in college, my first roommate had a funny
habit whenever he got drunk. He’d basically turn into a narcoleptic
— he’d spontaneously fall asleep in strange places and at random
moments (Setup).
Well, literally the first night I knew this guy, he
and I go out to some orientation party. We meet a couple girls and
go back to their dorm with them. He and I are totally drunk and I
notice he’s kind of stopped talking to his girl and is dozing off
in the corner. Kind of weird, but it was like 3 AM, so whatever.
Suddenly, he says he’s going to go and gets up and leaves. I think
nothing of it until I go home, wake up the next morning and he’s
still not back. Hours pass and I start getting worried
(Content/Conflict).
It turns out that the guy went out into the hallway
lobby, laid down on the floor and slept there the whole night. But
not only that, he left his jacket in the girl’s room. So at like 9
in the morning he had to sneak back in, wake her up and take his
jacket back. It was pretty hilarious at the time. But yeah, that
was my college roommate (Resolution).
Often adding a line like, “Yeah, that was my
college roommate,” is good because it indicates that the story is
finished and that you’re finished speaking.
Here’s another example:
I knew I wasn’t meant for the 9 to 5 world almost
immediately. Out of college, I took a nice job at a prestigious
bank in downtown Boston (Setup).
I hated it from day one. In fact, I remember
thinking about three hours into the first day, “I wonder how long I
have to work here before I can leave?” (Conflict/Content).
My next thought was, “This is probably a bad sign.”
(Resolution).
Notice that I allude to the conclusion in the
beginning of my story. This is called “foreshadowing” and often
helps people follow along. Also, notice that it really doesn’t
matter how long or short each component of the story is as long as
you convey the correct information.
Another example:
When most people talk about a crazy city, I don’t
think they’ve ever been to South America. I lived down there for a
few months last Spring and you see things every week that are just
beyond our reality here (Setup).
Like one night, we hopped in a cab to go to another
nightclub. It was a Tuesday at about 4 AM. The taxi driver promptly
turns around and asks us if we’d like to try some of his cocaine.
We politely refuse. So the cabbie says in Spanish, “Fine, more for
me.” He then proceeds to do lines of coke while driving 50mph with
his knees (Content/Conflict).
We all thought we were going to die that night
(Resolution).
All true stories by the way…
In the last section, we talked about “jump
off points” in conversation and how that’s how we learn to relate
to one another. The examples showed jump off points in individual
sentences.
In real life, people speak in more than
sentences; they speak to each other in stories. So you’ll want to
develop the ability to formulate entire stories around jump
off points, as well as notice jump off points within entire
stories.
This is actually much easier than it sounds,
and you probably do it naturally with your friends and family in a
lot of situations. The idea is to just do it consistently and
naturally and with anybody, including attractive women.
Relating and Connecting: The final
goal of a successful conversation is to actually make a personal
connection with the woman you’re talking to.
When you are talking to a woman, there are
only two real subjects of conversation: her and you.
Everything you speak about should be, in some way, revealing your
identity to her or her identity to you.
This uncovering of identity is what creates
the sense of a “connection.” The greater the connection you create,
the more she’ll want to spend time with you and vice-versa.
Making a connection requires three steps: 1)
being open about yourself, 2) getting her to be open about herself,
and 3) relating to each other’s experiences.
So what do you talk about? How do you talk
about yourself openly? When I tell guys “talk about yourself more.
Open up.” A lot of them go out and say, “I’m from New York. I like
baseball. I’m 27.” It’s good that they’re sharing themselves now,
but that’s a bit shallow.
Take out a sheet of paper and write down
three things for each of the following:
- Your passions and favorite things to do.
- Your dreams, ambitions, life goals.
- The best/worst things that have happened to
you.
- Your childhood, family life, and upbringing.
 
Now, go back to each item you wrote down and
talk about it to yourself for one minute. Try to be as detailed and
honest as possible.
It’s not as easy as it sounds. Even when
you’re alone sometimes talking about these subjects makes you a
little uneasy.
Most men feel a bit vulnerable when talking
about these topics, especially to women. That’s the point.
Be willing to share any part of yourself to
anyone at any time and on any level. You have nothing to lose by
sharing yourself. At the worst, she’ll reject you and, well, she’s
going to reject you if all you do is talk about sports and your job
anyway, so what’s the problem?
What you’ll actually find is when you share
something deeper and personal about yourself, it will be genuine
and she’ll immediately respond to that by being genuine
herself.
Ideally, sharing these aspects of yourself
will encourage her to share them in herself. You want to get her to
talk about her passions, her ambitions, her best experiences and
her most vulnerable experiences. These are the topics that define
us as humans and make us unique — that is, different from the last
20 guys who talked to her.
These are the topics of conversation that
will make you stand out. Why? Because she knows you. Not your
favorite sports team. Not the party you went to last week, but
you.
And when she knows you and remembers you,
she’ll make sure to pick up the phone when you call and meet up
with you again.
In conclusion: When it comes to
conversations, there’s a lot to cover. Reading this last section
may have been overwhelming for you. If so, just remember: break it
up into little chunks, practice one thing at a time.
But now that we’ve covered how to hold a
dynamic and interesting conversation, let’s talk about how to spice
it up. Let’s talk about humor.
Humor
There’s an old saying, if you can make a
woman laugh then you can get her to laugh right into bed. Now,
although humor is not a cure-all for anybody’s dating problems,
it’s definitely important. In fact, in many surveys of what women
look for most in a man, “sense of humor” is almost always at the
top of that list.
The reason is that a strong sense of humor
conveys all of the attractive traits of your identity to a woman. A
man who can laugh easily at the world and who isn’t afraid to laugh
at himself conveys a sense of non-neediness. He also makes women
feel good around him and, therefore, more secure. A man who is very
serious and unable to laugh at himself or the world conveys that he
is heavily invested in the perceptions of the world around him and
is therefore needy.
Your specific type of sense of humor isn’t so
important as much as that you have it. Obviously, different women
will respond strongly to different types of humor, but this is less
a function of your ability to tell jokes and more a function of
demographics. Sarcastic women will like sarcastic men. Silly women
will like silly men, and so on. Focus on what you find funny to you
personally, and don’t be afraid to share that with the women you
meet. If they laugh, then great! If they don’t, then chances are it
wasn’t going to work anyway.
At its core, humor is the art of drawing
connections between two seemingly unrelated ideas or objects. There
are a number of ways to do this, but at its core, humor is a
creative activity and, therefore, will greatly be tied to
your ability to uninhibitedly express yourself.
Sometimes your jokes will fall flat,
particularly when you’re starting out. That’s OK. Don’t laugh at
yourself. Don’t make fun of yourself. Don’t try to explain the
joke. These are all needy responses that are dependent on others’
perceptions of yourself rather than your own. Sometimes jokes are
bad or unfunny. That’s fine. Just move on.
In this section, I’ll give a brief overview
of a few types of humor: misdirection, exaggeration, sarcasm,
wordplay, and roleplaying.
Misdirection: One of the most common
and easiest forms of humor is misdirection. Misdirection occurs
when you begin to say something or tell a story that leads the
listener to believe you’re making one point, and then out of
nowhere you say something completely different. For instance,
here’s a famous line by Steve Martin:
“You know that look women get when they
want to have sex? ... Yeah, me neither.”
The line sets you up to believe that he’s
going to tell you a story about the time a woman gave him a look
like she wanted to have sex with him. But he misdirects you and
ends up making a joke about his own sexual inexperience. Here’s
another one from Jimmy Fallon:
“There’s a new book out called ‘Why Women
Have Sex’ that says there are 237 reasons why women have sex. And
folks, David Letterman knows the top 10.”
Again, he sets up the joke by telling you
about a new book out relating to why women have sex. But he then
takes the idea of there being 237 reasons why women have sex and
relates it to David Letterman’s famous “Top 10” segments on his
show and the fact that Letterman got caught sleeping with his
interns. It’s the connection of these two seemingly unrelated
topics that makes it funny.
Exaggeration: Exaggeration is another
mainstay of humor and something that everyone should be able to
use. Exaggeration is when you take a quality about something, and
blow it completely out of proportion, often in a creative or
interesting way. For instance:
“She’s a nice woman, though. Nicest three
acres of flesh I’ve ever met.”
Obviously, no woman actually has three acres
worth of flesh. But the exaggeration of her being fat is what
causes this line to be funny. There’s also a subtle misdirection in
the line (going from “she’s nice” to “she’s fat”).
Typically, the more creative and extreme you
are in describing your exaggeration, the funnier it will be. For
instance, notice the difference in how funny the following two
lines are:
“She was as ugly as a dog.”
“I’ve seen more attractive things in the bottom
of an airport urinal.”
Notice the second one is far more extreme and
creative. The completely unrelated ideas of an airport urinal and a
girl’s face (I’m laughing just typing this) is what creates the
greater degree of humor.
In humor, the more specific and odd the
details, typically the more funny a joke is.
Teasing and Sarcasm: Whereas
misdirection and exaggeration are funny to just about anybody,
you’ll run into a minority of women who don’t find teasing or
sarcasm funny. Teasing and sarcasm can also vary in degrees of
appropriateness, especially depending on where you are. If you’re
at a funeral, it’s probably not a good idea to make sarcastic
comments about the deceased’s family.
Teasing is when you make humorous comments
that are derogatory about someone. Generally, teasing is done in
good humor and with good intentions. Teasing with bad intentions
becomes insulting and is not welcome by most people.
Teasing is supposed to be fun. The ideal
tease will create a mixture of emotions in a girl: defensiveness
yet happiness. The ideal reaction is when a girl will say, “Oh my
god, I can’t believe you said that,” but will be laughing at the
same time and smiling. Here are a couple examples of teases:
(To a woman wearing bright red shoes)
“Are you going to click your heels to go home
later?”
(To a woman sitting by herself in the corner looking
bored)
“So who put you in timeout?”
(To a woman waving a dollar bill at the bartender to
get his attention)
“Is that how you always get men to pay attention
to you?”
Be careful with teases, especially to women
you don’t know. I said the last one to a woman I didn’t know and
got slapped. Then again, I still slept with her, but when you tease
frequently and freely, be prepared for a wide range of emotional
responses. Teasing polarizes, often hard and quickly. Therefore,
it’s a good tactic, but not always exactly pleasant.


Sometimes girls will genuinely be offended or
sensitive to teasing and not react well. I’d say maybe 1/3 of the
women I meet do not react well to teasing or a good-natured
ribbing. Make a point to spot these women and let the teasing go.
Generally women who don’t enjoy being teased really appreciate
genuine compliments, so I switch it up.
Sarcasm is an even darker form of humor than
teasing. Sarcasm works on even fewer women, but the women who
appreciate it really appreciate it. Chances are a lot of you
reading this don’t have a very sarcastic sense of humor. That’s
fine. You can just live a sexless and lonely life forever.
(That was sarcasm if you missed it.)
Seriously, sarcasm isn’t for everybody.
Sarcasm is when you make an extreme statement that’s completely
opposite of what you actually mean. You often say it with complete
seriousness and without smiling.
A lot of women won’t get sarcastic humor.
They’ll think you’re being serious or they’ll get confused. Others
don’t enjoy it very much. But I will say, in my experience, when a
woman loves sarcasm, she loves sarcasm.
Years ago, I was out with a girl at a bar. We
had been flirting all night and she had a very sarcastic sense of
humor. At one point she looked at my drink and said, “You drink
slow, I’ve already finished my drink!"
I replied with a totally straight face, “Not
all of us hate ourselves as much as you do.”
She nearly fell over laughing. She loved it
and we ended up having a great relationship together.
The Role of Swearing: Swearing and
dirty language has an interesting role in humor. Many types of
humor, such as sarcasm and exaggeration require a certain level of
edginess to pack a powerful punch.
Using dirty language or swear words is kind
of a cheap and easy way to make whatever you say more extreme. For
instance, adding the word “fucking” into just about any humorous
statement will make it pack a little more of a punch.
At the same time, using swear words is kind
of a shortcut, and if you use them too often, they’ll get old
quickly and sound try-hard. Dropping a well-timed F-bomb can make a
funny joke even funnier. But dropping an F-bomb into everything you
say just makes you look unsophisticated.
Generally, the older you are, the more I
recommend avoiding dirty language. Use it sparingly and only use it
when you have a specific reason to. The more you use it, the more
attention-seeking and negative you will make yourself appear, both
of which are unattractive traits.
Wordplay and Puns: Wordplay is similar
to misdirection in that the listener expects one type of meaning
and gets another, but wordplay practices misdirection by using
words that have various meanings.
A few examples:
“Hurry, a passenger is ill. We need to get to a
hospital.”
“What is it?”
“It’s a building with lots of doctors. But we
don’t have time for that.”
Or:
“Surely, you can’t be serious!”
“I am serious. And please, don’t call me
Shirley.”
I would say that puns and wordplay are an
even rarer form of appreciated humor than sarcasm. Puns and
wordplay also tend to be very intellectual. You’ll find few women
who appreciate them. And chances are even fewer of you reading this
like to say them. But again, when you do find a woman who
appreciates them, in my experience she really appreciates them.
Roleplaying and Games: Games and
roleplaying are quick and easy ways to inject fun into any
interaction with a woman. They’re playful. And they open up plenty
of opportunities for other types of humor when you use them.
Games can be anything from basic physical
games (hand slaps, thumb wars, etc.) to word games (five questions
game, fuck/marry/kill, etc.). For instance, fuck/marry/kill is
easy. You point to three random people in the room and you say,
“OK, out of those three people, who would you fuck, who would
marry, and who would you kill, and why?”
This game can lead to quite of bit of
interesting conversation based on people watching.
Roleplaying can be just as energizing and
fun. Roleplaying basically involves giving the woman you’re talking
to a fake role and then playing around with that role. Some of my
favorite roleplaying involves marriage/divorce roleplaying.
For instance, when I first meet a girl, let’s
say within 30 seconds she says something I don’t like. I’ll say,
“That’s it, we’re getting divorced.” It’s funny because I just met
her, but you can actually milk a lot of fun out of something simple
like this — for example, “You keep the kids, I’m moving to Europe.”
“By the way, your music sucks, and I never liked your casseroles
either.”
If you find yourself having a lot of trouble
with humor, I recommend watching a lot of stand-up comedians. Some
of my favorites are Louis CK, George Carlin, and Bill Hicks. Pay
attention to their delivery, their timing, and their facial
expressions. These things can’t be taught in a book, so pay
attention to them. Pick a few of your favorite comics and watch
their stand-up routines multiple times to get a real sense of how
they tell a story and how they nail a punchline.
Also, beware of falling into the trap of
self-deprecating humor. A lot of men, particularly needy men who
are highly invested in other people’s reactions around them, will
make fun of themselves and put themselves down in order to get a
laugh.
Although this may make women laugh, when used
in excess, it’s a needy behavior because you’re sacrificing your
own self-perception for the sake of others’ amusement. Therefore,
it’s ultimately unattractive. Guys with a good sense of humor who
habitually use it on themselves, I recommend turning those same
jokes and thoughts onto the women you’re talking to. Instead of
making fun of yourself, make fun of her. It may feel uncomfortable
at first, but you’ll be surprised at how it will blow your
interactions wide open and infuse more sexuality and playfulness
into them.
Humor is not a cure-all for your problems
with attracting and seducing women (if there were a cure-all, it’d
be physicality; Chapter 14). Some naturally funny men overly rely
on their ability to make a girl laugh and actually overdo it.
Instead of being attractive and strong men, they become
entertainers constantly seeking attention and validation. The worst
part about this habit is that it all happens while making the woman
laugh and making her enjoy your company. So a lot of men get
confused and actually think that they’re seducing her. She’s
smiling. She’s laughing. She likes me. She must be sexually
attracted to me, right?
Sadly, no. Humor is only useful if used in
conjunction with leading her in a dominant manner and pushing
things physically with her. Ultimately, you aren’t ever
really attracting a woman unless you’re connecting with her
physically and emotionally. And although humor is a very useful
tool to help you do that, it doesn’t actually do it for you.