What Are Your Stories?


I park my car in front of the gym and
immediately pop my headphones into my ears. As I get out and walk
across the parking lot, I catch a glimpse of a slender figure
walking toward the door from another angle. I look over. She’s
hot.
We catch eyes and hold. She looks away, but
only after holding my gaze for a half-second longer than most
people would. An instant of sexual tension pops up between us.
She walks into the gym about ten paces ahead
of me. I check out her ass. It says “PINK.” It’s those fuzzy kind
of tight sweat suits girls wear sometimes. My mind immediately
judges this. For some reason, I think she’s trashy. I have to stop
myself. What do I know? Nothing.
For a moment, we’re at the sign-in desk next
to one another. I start scanning in my mind for something to say to
her. But before I can settle on something her phone rings and she
answers it. “Oh god, one of those girls,” I instinctively say to
myself. Again I have to stop myself. I don’t know her. But
obviously, if I’m dedicating such mental energy to her, I probably
should.
For a few seconds in my head, I toy with some
logistical scenarios that would allow me to talk to her later —
like pretend I have to go to the bathroom so I can come back and
hopefully catch her off her phone. No, that’s too contrived. I
could just approach her in the gym while we’re working out. But to
be honest, that has never gone well for me in the past and I’m here
to work out, not to make friends. Or maybe I do my workout and try
to time it so that I’m leaving when she is. Then I would feel like
a stalker. Theoretically, these things could work, but my mind’s
losing interest. My headphones are blaring and my mind is working
its way towards the squat rack.
I’m not going to lie and say that despite all
of my hedging and indifference that I magically came up with some
miraculous line that saved the day. Because I didn’t talk to her.
In fact, I don’t remember seeing her again or thinking of her until
I wrote this. So I didn’t save the day. But then again there was
nothing wrong with my day and there still isn’t.
I’m also not going to sit here, as is typical
with these types of books, and chastise myself for bitching out,
for being a pussy, and for not manning up. It’s not that big
of a deal. And I’m also not going to give you, my humble reader,
yet another lecture on how you should never bitch out, how you
should always, always, always talk to her, no matter what, you
fucking pussy — even if she’s at the gym, on the phone, juggling
knives, doing a handstand, changing a flat tire or administering
CPR — you always fucking chat her up, goddamnit.
Let’s be honest, we all pass up dozens of
situations like the above on a weekly basis, no matter how
experienced or inexperienced we are. We’ve all let hundreds, if not
thousands of opportunities go, usually without a thought or even
realizing it. We’ve all done it. And we’ll all continue to do
it.
So I’m not here to rail on you to stop
passing up opportunities. You already know the opportunities you
pass up. And I’m sure by now you’ve had more than your fill of
woulda-coulda-shoulda moments.
I’m more interested in the stories you tell
yourself. The stories that we all tell ourselves.
When I got into this stuff years ago, I
struggled with anxiety around women as much as anyone as I’ve ever
met. I’ve coached hundreds of men since then, and I’ve maybe only
met 3-5 guys who have had worse anxiety than I did when it comes to
walking up to a random woman and speaking to her.
Jump to today. I rarely experience approach
anxiety consciously anymore. That isn’t to say I’m some sort of
badass. I put in my time. I paid my dues. A lot of it was fun and a
lot of it sucked and was humiliating. But I did it. I grew. And I’m
a better person for it now. Through the basic rote exercise of
meeting thousands of women in the most basic or ridiculous
scenarios over the years, most of that palpable fear — the hand
sweating, the fast breathing, the mind going blank — most of that
is gone.
What’s not gone, and as far as I can tell,
what will never be gone, is a continuing internal resistance to
change, whether it be through outright fear, or subtle subconscious
thoughts trying to sabotage me. That never stops. I don’t feel
nervous anymore, but I do feel a dreadful judgment and boredom.
“Only prissy girls wear crap like that,” “Oh God, she’s one of
those girls who’s always on her phone. I don’t have time for this.”
Sometimes it happens pre-approach. Sometimes it happens 30 minutes
in. Sometimes it happens on the second date. But always, these
judgments aren’t accurate portrayals of her. I don’t even
know her. Yet I’m judging her. It’s a defense mechanism. My
conscious fear has disappeared, but my subconscious resistance is
still alive and kicking.
And from what I’ve observed,
everybody’s subconscious defense mechanisms are still
kicking. The resistance doesn’t go away. It just changes shape.
Over the years, anxiety morphs into apathy, which morphs into
arrogance. The resistance may come before meeting her or before
kissing her or before having sex or before committing to a
relationship. We all have our own weak spots, and those weaknesses
each have their own form of resistance to the change we want. One
boundary simply gets pushed back into another and another.
Whether you feel incredibly nervous before
you approach, or if you procrastinate calling women you’ve met, or
if you tell yourself that you suddenly magically “don’t feel like”
having sex when you’re out on a date with a girl even though she’s
obviously into you and wants to go home with you, this is your
subconscious resisting change. And your mind is inventing stories
to explain that resistance. These stories have emotions tied to
them, whether they’re fear, boredom, anger, shame, or whatever —
which contribute to keeping you in the same place you are right
now. It’s your emotional inertia. It’s the status quo. The
mechanisms wired into you to keep you there, safe. And we all have
them.
Here are some other stories I’ve been telling
myself lately: That I’m too good for these girls; it’s my
subconscious’s favorite story right now. I tell myself, “I’ve been
with dozens of women hotter/smarter/cooler than her, so why should
I bother?” Yes, I recognize myriad things that are wrong with that
thought. Yes, I realize I’m totally pompous and full of shit when I
think that. But that’s my point. We’re all full of shit — a lot.
All of our stories are. And we listen to them most of the time. We
believe them. I know mine’s dumb, just like yours probably is too.
But that’s what pops into my head. That’s the excuse I have to
fight through these days. And for me, this one is a constant
battle.
Another one that’s been surfacing a lot is
that I don’t follow up by phone/text enough because I feel like
I’ve somehow earned the right to not put effort into my
interactions with women anymore (if you ever wondered how teaching
pick up and dating can kind of screw you up, there’s a nice
example).
I don’t call girls back as often as I should.
I feel entitled for some reason. Like they should feel grateful and
just show up at my doorstep when I want them to. Sure, sometimes I
genuinely don’t really dig a girl and don’t care if I see her
again. But other times I do and I regret not putting in the extra
effort a few weeks later.
These are my stories. They’re completely
different now than they were three years ago. And they were
completely different three years ago than they were six years ago.
But they’ve all had the same purpose: to protect the status quo. My
emotional inertia.
What stories do you tell yourself? Because
until you’re aware of your stories, you’re not going to be able to
change your behavior. Maybe you get very nervous in bars and clubs
and tell yourself stories of inadequacy. “Girls like that only like
tall guys with muscles.” Or maybe you tell yourself, “I’ll start
approaching after a few drinks.” Or maybe you tell yourself that
you’re always in too much of a hurry, too busy to stop and say
hello to a woman in a coffee shop.
Maybe you tell yourself that you need to have
something really amazing to say for her to like you. So you stutter
and stumble when talking to her, trying too hard and weirding her
out. Here’s a story to try out: maybe you’re already amazing.
Or how about this one? Maybe you tell
yourself that you’re not even ready to meet women yet. You sit at
home and read more books like this, telling yourself “Just a little
bit more,” or “After I get a raise and a new haircut,” or “Once I
save up to buy some nice clothes.” And then once you get that
raise, or get those clothes, then a new story pops up to take its
place. You need to study more first. Or go on a diet. Then you’ll
be ready. Yet six months have gone by, and nothing.
It’s always something, isn’t it? There always
seems to be something that you don’t have right this second, that
if you had it, you’d be able to act in the exact way that you’d
like. Right?
So what are your stories? What do you tell
yourself to justify that internal resistance inside you? And what
stories can you tell yourself instead to remove as much of that
resistance as possible?
People talk a lot about the idea of “skill”
in all of this stuff. “Pick up is a skill. It needs to be
practiced,” blah, blah, blah. I think as the years go on, it’s
being proven over and over that what you say isn’t so important,
how you approach isn’t so important. What’s important is that you
move things forward without hesitation, without that resistance
that you’re obeying right now by doing nothing, by remaining in the
status quo — the same resistance I listened to today at the gym.
That girl could have been the love of my life, the absolute perfect
girl for me. Who knows? I never will.
The only important "skill" in dating is
learning how to stop buying into your own bullshit, to stop
believing your own stories. The resistance is constant. So you must
constantly fight against it, acknowledge the stories you create for
yourself, look them in the eye and say, “You know what, I don’t
care if she’s on her phone and her ass says ‘PINK’ on it, I want to
meet her.” And then do it. Without hesitation. Without fear. And
without apology.
Sure, you’ll have to flex your mental and
emotional muscles, and build up your body of self-awareness, but
here’s the good news: those are the muscles chicks actually
dig.
Unfortunately, we all buy into our own
bullshit. We all believe our own stories from time to time. And
chances are, the more anxiety and fear you have surrounding women
and your sexuality, the more of your own stories and bullshit
you’ve bought into.
Defense Mechanisms
Most of us have a lot of fear and shame
bundled up in our sexuality. These fears usually manifest
themselves in a handful of very specific scenarios:
- Fear of approaching and starting a conversation
with an attractive woman
- Fear of stating sexual interest either directly or
indirectly (by asking for a phone number, calling a phone number,
asking her out on a date, etc.)
- Fear of initiating sexual contact (typically the
first kiss situation)
- Fear of actual sexual intercourse
The majority of men experience at least one
of the above fears to some degree when it comes to interacting with
women. There is a minority of men who will be completely devoid of
one or more of the above fears and a very tiny minority who will be
devoid of all of the fears above.
These anxieties are manifestations of
neediness and an unwillingness to be vulnerable. Typically, the
needier you are in a certain area, the more anxiety you’ll have in
that area.
This is unscientific, but in my experience
coaching and working with hundreds of men, I’ve noticed
correlations between high degrees of anxiety and experiencing one
or more of the following situations: lack of a father figure
growing up, emotionally abusive childhood, childhood traumas,
strict religious upbringing, strict cultural upbringing, bullying
or social ostracism growing up.
The sad fact about anxiety is that once you
have it, it’s there and figuring out why it’s there doesn’t help
much. You can either avoid it the rest of your life, or you can do
something about it.
We’re here to do something about it. This
section of the book is called Honest Action for a reason.
I personally think anxiety is the biggest
culprit when it comes to preventing men from successfully meeting
and dating women. You remove anxiety, and trial-and-error will take
care of most of the rest.
Anxiety, almost by its very definition,
represents a high level of neediness. Let’s say a beautiful woman
sits down next to you and you want to say something to her but are
scared to death. The fact that you’re scared to death demonstrates
a high level of investment in her opinion of you, and thus a high
degree of neediness. This neediness creates a fight-or-flight
response in us — a surge of adrenaline, we begin sweating, our mind
starts zipping at a million miles a minute, thinking of everything
and nothing all at once — and if we do manage to utter a word,
chances are we stutter and sputter and make a red-faced fool out of
ourselves.
This then leads to further anxiety the next
time a beautiful woman sits down next to us.
This is a terrible conundrum, and almost all
of us suffer from it in some form or another. I suffered from it
horribly and it took me years to undo it. Hopefully, with
what I learned, it won’t take nearly as long or be nearly as
painful for you as it was for me.
The first step to overcoming your fears is to
figure out what your pattern is.
When we are confronted with our fears or
anxieties, we have a pattern or strategy that we usually use to
deal with them. For instance, my most common pattern is apathy.
Whenever I’m confronted with something I’m afraid of, I pretend —
or scratch that, I convince myself — that I don’t actually
care. Here are some of the most common patterns that I’ve
noticed:
1. Blame Game — The Blame Game is where, when
confronted with something he’s afraid of, a man blames someone or
something else for his fear.
For instance, let’s say you’re anxious about giving
a presentation at work. Someone who does the Blame Game will come
up with reasons why his boss is stupid and how he’s way too smart
to be doing this anyway and how it’s not his fault if things go
wrong because he’s been sick and so-and-so didn’t do enough
research.
In the context of women, the Blame Game will often
result in men convincing themselves of stuff like, “Oh, she’s stuck
up,” or “She’s just into guys who are good-looking,” or “She’s too
stupid for me anyway,” or “This club is too loud to talk to
people,” or “Women in Miami are just bitches, I need to find a new
city.”
The excuses and blame can be petty and ridiculous,
but they can also run deep. The awful part of the blame game is
that with it come anger and frustration. And if you do it enough,
the anger will pile up and you will end up with some pretty bitter
and irrational beliefs about women. Men who have played the blame
game their whole lives may develop screwed up beliefs like, “All
women care about is how much money a guy has,” or “All girls in
bars are stupid and shallow.” This can lead to some pretty dark
places.
2. Apathy and Avoidance — This has always been my
Achilles’ heel, and it’s quite common. Experiencing apathy and
avoidance is exactly as it says: it’s when a man convinces himself
that he doesn’t care or that it’s not important to him. I did this
for years. I convinced myself that I didn’t care about
meeting women and that it didn’t really matter if girls I liked
didn’t find me attractive. Well, after enough months of sitting
home alone looking at porn while all of my friends were going
through girlfriend after girlfriend, I had a rude awakening: I do
care. Apathy and avoidance isn’t the worst response when avoiding
our fears with women in that it usually can’t last forever. We’re
biologically compelled to pursue women so at some point, instinct
will win over. Where it is dangerous is in other areas of
our life such as career, family or hobbies. The apathy and
avoidance pattern is the root behind the couch potatoes and
disgruntled office workers of the world.
3. Intellectualizing — I guarantee that this is part
of the reason you’re here: you have some sort of fear, anxiety or
pain related to women, and instead of actually doing
something about it, you got online and decided to look up an answer
that you could study.
Intellectualizing is sometimes beneficial in that
you can learn a ton of information about a lot of subjects, and
sometimes, the intellectualizing will lead to more self-awareness
and help clarify what sort of action you need to take. But there
are many men who use intellectualizing as just another form of
avoidance. It tends to be really smart guys too, which is a
problem, because the smarter you are, the more you’re able to
intellectualize and convince yourself that you need to learn and
understand more.
But when it comes to women, this is not the answer
(says the guy who wrote a 200-page book on women). Honestly, if you
went out and talked to women for a year without ever reading a word
of dating advice, you’d probably do OK, assuming you were honest
with yourself and able to learn from your mistakes. Sure, this
stuff all helps, but in the end, your best teacher is your
experience. There comes a certain point where learning more about a
subject is no longer beneficial and on the contrary, is just going
to get you more mixed up and confused, since you have no experience
to actually apply your knowledge to.
Intellectualizing also ends up having a backlash.
Once you study a subject enough, it can actually increase your
anxiety. By studying it so much, you’ve put more pressure on
yourself to succeed and, therefore, build up higher expectations
for yourself.
There are more patterns, but these three
above are the main ones that I’ve run into with men trying to
overcome their anxieties.
Also, there’s a pattern within each of the
responses to fear listed above: they aim to avoid the fear
and they usually do it by convincing themselves of something
that’s not necessarily true.
The blame game guy will convince himself that
it’s her fault. The apathy guy will convince himself that it
doesn’t matter. The intellectualizing guy will convince himself
that he needs to learn and understand more first. In the end,
they're all avoiding what they're afraid of.
Also, realize that no one uses just one
defense mechanism. We all use each of them some of the time. In
fact, we may stack them on top of each other. For example, “I don’t
care what the girls think here because they’re all stuck up
bitches, so I’m going to go home," neatly stacks apathy on top of
blame.
With that said, we all seem to have a
favorite pattern that we fall back on the most often.
The key to overcoming your fears is first and
foremost to break your patterned response to your fear. This
requires a certain level of self-awareness and discipline.
So for instance, when I was learning to
approach women, I had a lot of fear and anxiety. And my pattern was
apathy. So I’d be hanging out in a bar, see a cute girl I liked,
and my immediate reaction would be to say something like, “Eh, I
don’t really feel like talking right now,” or “I don’t feel like
meeting girls right now.” This was complete bullshit. I had
purposely gone out that night for no other reason than to meet
women. I had been reading books and websites all week about nothing
but meeting girls. I wanted to meet girls.
It wasn’t until I became aware of this
pattern that I was able to start breaking it and forcing myself to
talk to that woman I wanted to talk to, even when my mind was
telling me that I didn’t want to.
So here are some helpful ways to break your
own pattern:
1. Take a moment and think about what you’re most
anxious about. Is it approaching? Is it showing sexual interest? Is
it asking a woman out? Is it the first kiss?
2. Now write down your pattern with it. So for
instance, “Calling women, pattern is apathy,” or “Approaching
women, pattern is blame game.”
3. Now, create a goal for yourself, for instance,
“Call every phone number I get, no matter how much I don’t care.”
Write it down.
4. Tell a friend or a buddy what you plan on doing
and ask him to keep you accountable.
That last item is important. Sharing your
fears and having someone keep you accountable is integral to this
whole process and makes it 10 times easier. Even the very act of
sharing your fear with someone who can empathize and understand
goes a long way towards relieving the pressure.
You Are Not a Victim
One assumption I’ve lived my life by for a
long time now goes like this: “If it’s a question of me being
screwed up or masses of people being screwed up in the same way,
then it’s far more likely that it’s just me being screwed up.”
Just to name an obvious example. Men often
come to me and say something like this: “I go out and try to meet
women, but the problem is all of the girls in my town are catty and
immature. So I guess I just need to move to a new city.”
Really? So, it’s not you who’s screwed up,
it’s the 150,000+ single women in your city who are all
screwed up — in the exact same way. What are the odds of that?
Or you get men who claim that every —
not some, not most, but all — American women are fickle and
too individualistic. Or that all women who dress
provocatively are immoral cheaters and would never make a good
girlfriend.
Men make negative assumptions and stereotypes
about millions of women for no other reason than to shirk
responsibility for their own shortcomings. This appears to me to be
nothing but a victim mentality and it pervades a lot of men’s
thinking, some in more obvious ways than others.
This doesn’t necessarily mean the general
observations are wrong, it just means you’re interpreting them in
such a way to victimize yourself. Sure, American women may be more
fickle and pretentious than their European counterparts (then
again, they may not be). Women in your town might actually be more
closed off than women in a bigger city (or they might not be). But
you’re choosing to let those observations be responsible for your
own actions. This is the definition of being over-invested in
others and being needy.
Humans stereotype for a reason: so that we
can manage large chunks of information to orient ourselves more
efficiently. Often, stereotypes can be useful. But usually they’re
not. Often they’re nothing more than excuses — ways for us to avoid
the blame and responsibility for not being satisfied with our
results. And these excuses hurt us and shut us off from
opportunities. If we're blaming others, we're not learning. And if
we're not learning, we're not improving.
So returning to the “women in my town are
cold” example. Yeah, they may, on average, be colder than say, Las
Vegas women. But are all of them? No. Maybe 40%? 50%? But if
you write them all off as being cold and use it as an excuse
and not take responsibility, you’re effectively shutting yourself
off from 50% of the women in your town. You’re effectively missing
out on hundreds of opportunities.
The same goes for complaints against American
women. There are something like 40 million single women in the US.
And you truly believe you can’t find one good one? Whose fault is
that? It’s your fault. You’re being lazy. You’re being lazy and
unfairly judging millions of women all because you aren’t willing
to take responsibility for your failures.
I believe strongly in taking responsibility
for everything that happens to you in your life. Our minds are
always looking for ways to avoid pain and failure and rejection,
and so they constantly churn out rationalizations to keep us
impeccable; it’s them who fucked up, not us. We're fine. We did
everything right. It's that fucked up world's fault we're not
happy.
Blame is yet another form of neediness. It’s
prioritizing others over yourself. As long as it’s their fault,
then you don’t have to make yourself vulnerable.
But when you practice taking responsibility
for everything that happens in your life, you stop blaming others.
It becomes less a question of blame and more a question of
sacrifice. It’s no longer their fault that you’re still single
because they’re all cold bitches, but now it’s your fault and a
question of whether you’re willing to sacrifice the extra effort or
not to find a woman who isn’t a cold bitch. Taking responsibility
and morphing blame into sacrifice empowers you. It puts the ball in
your court and returns you to the healthy reality that the only
person in this world who determines your success and failure is
you.
The question of blame, responsibility, and
sacrifice is a profound one in relationships as well. Dysfunctional
relationships almost always crumble under the pressure of one
person blaming the other for their shortcomings or transgressions.
Research has shown a direct correlation between the amount of blame
leveled between partners and their propensity to break up. The
recipe for a healthy and happy relationship is one where both
partners take responsibility for their own emotions and their
choice to commit to the other.
Earlier in the book, I mentioned that before
I got into all of this dating advice stuff, I dated a girl for four
years in high school and college. I was madly in love with her and
she ended up cheating on me and leaving me for another guy. For a
long time, I blamed her and I was very angry.
Rightly so.
But as time passed, I recognized a few
things: 1) I wasn’t exactly boyfriend-of-the-year, and in many
ways, her cheating and leaving me wasn’t very surprising; 2) there
were plenty of warning signs that I chose to ignore or was just
completely oblivious to; and 3) regardless of her actions, I made a
conscious choice to commit to her day in and day out, and the risk
of being cheated on was always a possibility in that commitment.
The awful result of that relationship was a possibility I had been
aware of from day one. Yes, she did something shitty, but I also
chose to trust her.
In the end, I made the conscious decision
that I was willing to sacrifice the risk of being hurt in order to
enjoy the commitment of our relationship. And I wouldn’t take that
decision back. It was my responsibility.
When I was younger, I used to have a
love/hate relationship for superficial party girls. I was young and
had seen in a movie that I was supposed to be some studly party
guy, and so I spent a lot of time trying to attract drunk party
girls and have sex with them. It frustrated me for a long time and
the ‘hate’ part of the love/hate was that I came to see them as
fickle, stupid and shallow.
Now, that may be true, but I was blaming
them for my lack of success with them. I mean, how dare they
not be attracted to me! If they weren’t so dumb, they’d be lining
up to sleep with me, and that’s how the world should be, right?
No, it shouldn’t. That was an immature and
entitled mindset to have. I was blaming them for something I was
responsible for. And by doing so, I refused to respect them as
human beings, and rather, I was choosing to see them merely as
gyrating sexual pleasure objects that were to be conquered, like in
a video game.
The truth was I had to make a choice: was I
willing to work to expand my communication in order to connect with
girls like that? At the end of the day, that’s the only relevant
question. The women you meet will be the women you meet, but are
you willing to put in the effort to make something of it? When I
did, I found something out: that many of them were not so stupid
and shallow and superficial after all. In fact, many of them are
smart, interesting and fun — and beautiful! But until I opened
myself up to that possibility and took it upon myself to find them,
I was missing out.
Challenge yourself to find the good and
beautiful thing inside of everyone. It’s there. It’s your job to
find it. Not their job to show you.
Sexual Motivation
Another problem a lot of men run into, aside
from their fears and their anxieties, is a seeming lack of
motivation to get out there and pursue women. It’s one thing to sit
at home and read books like this one, but it’s something completely
different to actually get off your ass on a Saturday and force
yourself to meet women. It takes a lot of effort at first, and some
men are easily able to convince themselves that it may not be worth
the effort.
Since the advent of internet pornography,
it’s become easier than ever for men to satisfy their sexual urges.
And today, there’s an entire generation that has grown up always
having access to as much pornography as they want since a young
age.
There are a lot of anti-pornography
movements, and there are even theories about “pornography
addiction” that are thrown around. Although there’s no absolute
scientific proof (yet) for porn addiction, here’s something I can
tell you that is absolutely true: porn harms your motivation to
pursue women in real life.
There’s a bit of an epidemic of sexual apathy
going on worldwide, where husbands, boyfriends and even single men
are turning to pornography rather than the real life women that
they see walking around every day. And it makes sense why: it’s
easier, the women are hot, the sex is more exciting, it’s available
at any time with the click of a mouse, it’s (usually) free, the
girls never say no, it’s emotionless and there are no obligations
or commitments involved.
The problem is that there are some negative
side effects. The first being that porn creates very, very
unrealistic expectations about sex, about women, and about
sexuality. Porn makes money by accentuating and exaggerating sexual
ideals. Actual sex with an actual woman often involves awkward
moments of figuring out what she likes, what you like, who likes it
which way. It also often involves ecstatic moments of emotional
intimacy, something porn can never provide.
Also, real women, no matter how hot they are,
have imperfections — imperfections that are covered up in porn by
makeup and plastic surgery. If a guy gets too accustomed to the
perfectionism of porn, he’s going to have a lot more trouble
becoming motivated by the girls he sees every day.
The other problem is that porn is so easy,
that it encourages men to masturbate a lot. And as we all
know, as men, the more we masturbate, the more interested we become
in food and television, and the less we become in women and
accomplishing something.
Napoleon Hill wrote a famous section in his
classic work Think and Grow Rich called “Sexual
Transfiguration.” Hill noticed and theorized that extremely
successful men also had extremely high sex drives. And not only did
they have very high sex drives, but they also channeled this sexual
energy into their work and their accomplishments. Often they would
abstain from sex or masturbation for long periods of time and
would, therefore, feel more energized.
Science is starting to back this up. Orgasms,
or more accurately, ejaculation in men, actually causes a depletion
of various hormones and endorphins which often lead to useful
behaviors as well as motivation.
Men who have masturbated constantly since
adolescence often masturbate so hard and furiously that they
desensitize their penis to realistic scenarios. When you masturbate
three times a day for years straight, you often have to grip
yourself very hard and rub furiously to get off. This can often
lead to sexual issues and impotence when a man actually does get
into bed with a woman. This is because vaginas are soft, they’re
wet, and the sensations they give you are subtle. Your iron-fisted
grip does a horrible job of preparing you for the warm lady
love.
So here’s what I recommend to you and all men
who are looking to get motivated and improve themselves. It’s my
patented masturbation and porn diet that I give to men. In fact, I
still go on this diet myself from time to time when I want to add a
little motivation to my life. It works wonders, and a lot of men
have gotten stunning results from it. I’ve talked to guys who
literally sat around reading dating advice for years without ever
taking action, but on my masturbation and porn diet, within two
weeks they were out there meeting women and trying to get
dates.
So without further ado...
- End all pornography immediately. Starting today.
Delete everything from your computer. Throw out any discs or DVDs
you have. And if you have trouble controlling your urges, download
some free website blocking software and block every porn site you
know of indefinitely. This may sound horrible or extreme, but trust
me. You will thank me in a month.
- Limit your masturbation to once a week. Schedule
it. Pick a day. I usually pick Monday. Do not deviate from your
masturbation schedule! If you want even a larger dose of motivation
(and you want to be as horny as a 14-year old), limit your
masturbation to once every other week. Again, pick a day and hold
yourself to it.
- When you masturbate, you’re only allowed to
fantasize about women you’ve met and have not had sex with. It
could be that woman at work. That girl you met Saturday night. The
girl you have a date with that week. Whatever. But she has to be
real, and she has to be someone you have not slept with (but
obviously want to).
- When you masturbate, use lotion or lube. Do it
slower than usual. Drag it out longer than 10 minutes if you can.
Take your time with it. Enjoy it. You don’t get to do this every
day, remember?
Follow this for a few weeks and you should
find yourself motivated. If you mess up or give in, just start over
again. Don’t be hard on yourself. Ideally, within a couple weeks,
the idea of going out to approach women should sound exciting to
you instead of a chore. This is good. So go out and do it!