Moving Ahead


There’s a lot to digest in this book.
And if you’re a first-timer who hasn’t started his journey of
self-improvement to become more attractive to women, it’s easy to
get overwhelmed and wonder where to start.
That’s why I’ve put together this small
Action Plan at the end of the book, to not only give you a clear
place to start but also help you see what you should focus on and
in which order.
The Action Plan is divided up into sections
of five tasks or challenges. Once you’ve completed at least four of
the tasks in each section, move on to the next section. In Section
1, some tasks you will naturally have handled. For instance, if you
already work out regularly, then that’s fine. In other sections, an
item doesn’t count unless you do it since starting that
section. For instance, in Section 5, you’re challenged to have
sex with a woman you’ve never had sex with before. Obviously, not
everyone reading this is a virgin. Some of you may even have sex
with a woman in previous sections. But it doesn’t count until you
get to section 5.
Obviously, these aren’t rigid rules. But the
sections are laid out here to challenge you and give you clearly
defined goals and benchmarks to strive for. In all sections, some
tasks will be very easy for you. Others will be very difficult. It
will vary from person to person, but the idea is to give you a
general path to follow when it comes to improving yourself.
Also realize, that this is a long-term
process. A lot of these tasks won’t be completed in one night or
even in one weekend. A lot of them will require weeks or months of
effort. But that’s OK. That means you probably really needed to
work on it.
Level 1: Your Foundation (Complete 5 of
5)
Join a gym: If you’re not already a member of
a gym, join one. If you’re not familiar with how to work out
properly, hire a personal trainer. Make this a weekly habit.
Upgrade your wardrobe: Go out and upgrade
your wardrobe based on the recommendations in Chapter 8. Challenge
yourself to wear nicer clothes than you’ve ever worn before. It’ll
change how you feel about yourself.
Get a nice haircut: Go to a salon and drop
the $50 on it. It’s worth it. It makes a difference.
Job security/satisfaction: This is a
complicated one, but if you’re not happy with your work situation,
take some time and plan a way to fix it. If you work too much, try
to find a way to work less. If you’re unemployed, stop everything
else and get a job.
Pursue one social hobby regularly: Pick a
social hobby and pursue it regularly. You may already have one, but
if not, find one. It could be dance classes, public speaking
courses, language courses, cooking classes, joining a band, etc.
Whatever it is, make it social. That means sitting at home and
perfecting your model airplanes doesn’t count.
Level 2: Meeting Women (Complete 4 of 5)
Figure out demographics: Figure out your
demographics based on the recommendations in. Write down the type
of women you’d like to meet and the places you enjoy going most.
Then find venues or events where those two things intersect. It
could be independent rock concerts, it could be art gallery
showings, it could be salsa nights. Whatever it is, find your niche
and pursue it.
Meet 5 women in one day: Self-explanatory
Meet 20 women in one week: Also
self-explanatory.
Join an online dating site and email 10
women: Also self-explanatory. If you’re under 30 years old, I
recommend free dating sites. If you’re over 30 years old, I
recommend pay sites.
Sign up for a singles or speed dating event:
If you have trouble doing the approaching tasks, then this may give
you a needed boost in the right direction.
Level 3: Getting to Know Women (Complete 2
of 3)
Hold at least three 30-minute conversations with
women you just met: Can be anywhere.
Get three phone numbers from women you just
met: Just ask, you’ll be surprised how many women will give
them to you.
Go on two dates: They can come from women you
met anywhere.
Level 4: Getting Intimate (Complete 2 of
3)
Kiss two women: Make sure they’re women
you’ve met since reading this book.
Go on a second date with the same woman:
Self-explanatory.
Successfully get a woman back to your place:
Usually can be done on the second date.
Level 5: Getting Sexual (Complete 2 of
2)
Have sex with a woman you’ve never had sex with
before: Self explanatory
Go on three first dates with new women:
Self-explanatory.
Level 6: Oh, You Mack Daddy, You
(Optional)
Have sex with a woman you met that same
day/night: Again, recommended you do this with a woman you meet
in a bar or nightclub. Bringing a woman home you meet during the
day is more difficult, but not impossible.
Have sex with a woman on the first date: Make
sure it’s a damn good date.
Kiss three women the day/night you meet them:
Can be done on separate nights. Also recommended to do this at a
bar or nightclub.