How To Overcome Anxiety


Think back to the last time someone
you didn’t want to see tried to hang out with you. Maybe it was
that annoying guy at work. Maybe it was your black-sheep
brother-in-law. Maybe it was a blind date when your mother tried to
set you up with her friend’s daughter. Think of that awkward
situation where you had to turn someone down. Think back to the
last time you had to politely come up with excuses to not spend
time with somebody. How did it make you feel?
Not good.
Rejecting people, whether you’re doing it
blatantly (“Go away and leave me alone”) or indirectly (“Oh, I’m
actually really busy this weekend, maybe another time”) is actually
an awkward and uncomfortable situation that nobody enjoys.
Extremely few people in this world enjoy being an asshole or
hurting someone else’s feelings.
Now imagine having to do this on an almost
weekly basis. There’s nothing gratifying about it, in fact, it
becomes frustrating and tedious. It also explains why women seem to
complain about guys hitting on them or about guys being creepy —
they have to reject them, and rejecting someone is generally an
unpleasant or uncomfortable experience.
Men who have the perception of women as these
ego-centric creatures who laugh at us from their sexual
mountain-tops, doling out which man gets (a chance at) the divine
pussy access and which man gets to squander away his time in
solitude — it doesn’t work like that.
Think about it. Why do women spend so much
time and effort on their appearance? Why do they go to singles’
bars and join dating sites and give blind dates a try? They don’t
do it so that they can revel in rejecting a bunch of guys. They’re
just as lonely and frustrated as we are. They want to meet a man.
But not just any man, a great man — a man who is confident,
charming, fun, and interesting. A man who is non-needy, who is
vulnerable, and who will honestly express himself to her.
She wants you to be that man. She’s secretly
rooting for you. She doesn’t want to reject you. Every time a new
man walks up to her, she’s secretly saying to herself, “Please,
please, please be the man. Be the attractive man that I can’t say
no to.” And then he nervously stutters around buying her a drink
and makes uncomfortable jokes about the weather and she’s back to
that horribly uncomfortable position of having to reject him
again.
Other times it doesn’t even get that far.
It’s obvious before he even opens his mouth that it’s game over.
He’s dressed like a clown or hasn’t combed his hair in three
months, or he’s too drunk to even look at her directly.
This is also why women are willing to
overlook a lot of bonehead moves and mistakes we make if they like
us. It’s amazing how many second and third chances a woman will
give you if she likes you. She’s rooting for you. She’s your
biggest fan. She’s saying, “Oh, he chickened out on asking me out
this time, but I’ll find an excuse to call him so maybe he’ll do it
next time.” They’re begging for you to succeed. They want it just
as bad as you do. That women at the party, in the coffee shop, on
the dating site, they want you to be that unbelievably attractive
man, that man who makes time stop for them and can make them feel
things they’ve never felt before. They want you to be that. And
when they reject you, it’s not because they enjoy it, or because
they have a big ego, or because you’re too short or your muscles
aren’t big enough…
It’s because you didn’t give her that
feeling. You didn’t make her spin and fall and laugh and forget
where she was or who she was with. That’s what she goes out looking
for: the man who can make her feel more alive.
The next time you make your move, when she
sees you coming — and trust me, she usually sees you coming — know
that she’s already rooting for you. Secretly, she wants you to
succeed as much as you do. And for a moment, she’s your biggest
fan.
And your role as a man is to take action.
It’s all on you. It’s always on you. You move things forward.
And this is where the vast majority of men
falter. An action as simple as opening your mouth, moving your feet
in the right direction, or picking up the phone — they simply don’t
do it. The fear and rationalizations mentioned in the previous
chapter are too large. It feels too overwhelming. And nothing gets
done.
And ultimately, no matter how much you read,
how much you study, how much you watch about dating and attracting
women, if you’re unable to take action, you will get nowhere.
Chances are if you’re reading this, this is
not the first book on dating or attraction that you’ve ever read.
Some men become self-help and dating advice junkies, reading and
reading and reading and never taking action.
In fact, sometimes men use reading and
hoarding information and advice as a way to avoid taking action.
They feel like if they’re reading a 150-page book on attraction,
then they’re accomplishing something right? And as long as
they’re accomplishing something, then they don’t have to confront
what they’re afraid of: going out and standing in front of a woman
and expressing their truth, being vulnerable, subjecting themselves
to rejection.
This isn’t a new problem. The self-help and
business advice industries have been dealing with it for decades.
The men’s dating advice industry has been dealing with it as well.
But up until this point, it’s done a piss-poor job of motivating
men and helping to teach them how to take action.
The classic advice when it comes to taking
action is more or less to jump into the deep end until you learn to
swim.
The idea was that if you had a crippling fear
of approaching women, then you sign up for a “boot camp” or program
where a coach takes you out to a bar and more or less yells at you
until you approach 25 women in one night. What you say and what
happens is all over the place, but at least you’re getting off your
ass and doing something.
The problem with the overload method of
taking action is that it’s short-term and doesn’t create a lasting
habit. There’s a simpler and less stressful method for achieving
long-term results over your anxieties.
The Guide to Overcoming Your Anxiety
Fear is normal. Everyone has it in some form,
and it's not going away anytime soon. The trick isn't to eliminate
it; it's simply to train yourself to behave despite it.
Saying you want to get rid of all of your
fear is like saying you want to get rid of all anger, or all
sadness. This sounds like a noble goal, but research shows we
instead suppress or avoid the emotions, leaving us less capable of
dealing with them the next time they arise. Instead, what I
recommend is to learn to adapt our negative emotions into positive
behavior.
For instance, people with anger issues are
encouraged to channel their anger through productive means —
exercising, working, writing letters displaying their feelings,
etc. To avoid or ignore the anger will only bring it back worse
next time.
When my first girlfriend broke up with me, I
made a conscious decision. I had laid in bed depressed for a week
or two before I realized how ridiculous and pointless it was. I was
hurt and I was angry, but laying around in bed and avoiding her was
stressing me out. If I’m going to be stressed out, I may as well be
productive.
So I decided to try another strategy. I
decided that I would work on myself. I told myself I was doing it
so that she would be sorry she ever broke up with me. I did it out
of spite. My inspiration for self-improvement began with
revenge.
For the first time in my life, I joined a
gym. I began studying more. I went out with a female friend and
bought some new clothes. I went to parties with new people I met.
The whole time my motivation was the anger and hurt that I had
towards my ex-girlfriend. I was going to become such an amazing
person, she'd be sorry she ever left me.
The same concept can be applied to your fear
and anxiety around women.
The other problem with interpreting the
anxiety around women as something that must be removed is that this
often only serves to amplify it. Neurobiology has shown us that
attempting to avoid or shut out something we’re afraid of only
serves to make that fear stronger.
For instance, if you’ve ever played a sport
and were in a situation where you had to hit one shot to win the
game, you know that thinking about the pressure and the situation
and trying to be relaxed about it only makes you more
nervous and anxious.
The actual way to deal with it is to accept
it, embrace it, and harness it to make your performance better.
In Buddhism, there’s a saying, “What you
resist will persist.” And it’s true in this case as well.
The proper way to handle your fear and your
anxiety is to accept it, recognize that it’s normal and a part of
who you are, and to not even try to hide it from the woman you’re
meeting.
Think back to something you’re very, very
good at. Maybe you’re really great at some part of your job at
work. Or maybe you used to be awesome at tennis or chess back in
school. Maybe you’re a great public speaker.
All of those activities, when you were called
on to put yourself on the line (major tennis match, big
presentation, major meeting to lead), you probably got nervous
beforehand. But did that nervousness make you crumble or did it
invigorate you?
I used to love giving presentations in
school. I was great at them. I used to get nervous before every
single one. In fact, I’ve given probably 75 seminars and speaking
engagements for my business over the past five years. I was nervous
before every single one of those too.
But the nervousness almost felt good. I was
confident in my ability. It was a borderline excitement. I knew I
was going to blow everybody away. I knew that they would love me.
So even though I was nervous to get up there, I couldn’t wait.
It’s like professional athletes who say they
can’t sleep the night before a big game. They’re nervous, but they
can’t wait to get out there. They’re confident in their ability and
thrive on the pressure and the anxiety.
Psychological research actually shows that
people perform better at activities under a certain amount of
anxiety. In fact, what matters isn’t the anxiety itself, but the
person’s confidence in their own ability to perform whatever action
they’re anxious about.
So it’s less about the anxiety and more about
how competent you feel you are. The less competent you feel, the
more the anxiety will hinder you, the more confident you are in
your ability, the more the anxiety will help you.
This is actually where a lot of dating advice
and pick up theory actually hurts you. They explain these
complicated models and theories, give you tons of material to
memorize and practice, and present picking up women as some
complicated task akin to rocket science that only works once you’ve
tried and failed 1,000 times. That’s going to scare the shit out of
any guy with little to no experience.
The opposite is true. Attracting women is not
complicated. And if you can have a conversation with a friend or
family member, then you already possess the only “skill-set”
required in attracting a woman. There’s nothing to learn, only
things to do. And the fear doesn’t go away, you learn to hone it to
help you.
I still get nervous every time I approach a
beautiful woman I don’t know. I’ve approached probably over 2,000
at this point. I still get nervous every time I go to kiss one. And
I’ve probably kissed at least 300 at this point. I still get
nervous every time I bring a new girl home. And I’ve slept with
over 100 women.
The fear never goes away. What changes is my
neediness and vulnerability. The difference between now and 2005 is
that back then, I was incredibly needy and highly invested in how
women perceived me. These combined to amplify my anxiety in ways
that were unbearable.
See, a lot of people assume non-neediness
means being fearless. But non-neediness simply means to feel the
fear and not let it define you. Non-neediness is feeling the fear
and deciding that something else is more important.
If I say or do something that screws
everything up (and I still do all the time), I don’t really care.
It doesn’t change how I feel about myself, and it doesn’t change my
confidence in my ability to interact with women in the future.
What’s important is not the level of anxiety
or fear, but your competence at whatever you’re afraid of
doing.
So now you’re probably saying, “Well, that’s
nice, you’re that confident because you’ve been with so many women,
but what about a guy who has little to no experience with
women?”
Glad you asked.
Like I said before, when it came to dealing
with fear and rejection, all dating coaches basically took the
approach of “throw him into the deep end and hope he learns to
swim.”
If you were afraid to approach random women,
they would give you crazy lines or push you into very intimidating
and difficult social situations, hoping to “scare you
straight.”
The idea was if they could put you in the
worst possible situations, then the simple, regular social
situations would stop being intimidating.
I guess it’s like taking someone who wants to
get in shape and putting them in a marathon right away. It’ll help,
but wow, it is not going to be pretty or pleasant. So that
marathon — despite how ridiculously painful and difficult it is —
will only give someone some good exercise once, not as a habit.
If that’s it and they never exercise again,
then they’re going to revert back to their old, out-of-shape
selves.
The same is true with our fears.
The way to attack anxieties is through
incremental, consistent exposure. Not single, extreme exposure.
So for instance, you could take an afternoon
or your lunch break each day and make a point to approach a few
women just asking for the time.
Nothing more is required, just ask what time
it is.
Find something easy, but repeat it regularly
for a while, until it doesn’t feel difficult anymore.
Then the next week, you go out and ask women
what time it is followed by, “How is your day going?”
And each day, you slowly make it harder and
more intensive.
Slowly work up until you’re able to approach
women by telling them you think they’re attractive and asking them
out on a date. You’ll be surprised how quickly you can get
comfortable doing this.
In fact, if you’re like most guys and stick
with it, then you’ll begin to get hooked to the adrenaline rush and
actually enjoy the butterflies you get when you approach a new
woman.
Eventually, you’ll be able to approach any
woman in any circumstance and express your interest in her without
fear, without worrying about what to say or what line to use.
And you can apply this to all sorts of
situations: getting physical with women, emailing women online,
calling phone numbers, sexual humor, conversations with women,
etc., etc.
It’s just a matter of knowing how to
structure your exposure.
Afraid to kiss girls on a date? Challenge
yourself first to hold their hand. Once you’ve done that a few
times, then challenge yourself to put your arm around them and
leave it there. Once you’ve done that a few times, then challenge
yourself to kiss them on the cheek. And finally, challenge yourself
to go for the kiss itself.
All of these goals can be done with the same
girl, and even on the same date. But the important part is to
stair-step your approach rather than expecting yourself to
immediately be banging girls by the dozen after a week.
Get creative. Other sticking points this
method can be applied to:
- Stalling out in conversation. Being comfortable
talking about yourself.
- Calling girls and asking them out on dates.
- Going for sex once you’ve been out on a date with
a girl.
- Flirting and teasing women.
- Showing direct interest. Stating that you’re
attracted to them.
Really all it takes is a focused and
concerted effort on your part without actually expecting yourself
to go from 0 to 100 in one night. Instead, you’ll slowly but surely
gain little successes repeatedly, not only building your competence
and confidence but also making the whole process a lot more
enjoyable, therefore helping you get over your anxiety.
And the great thing about this method is that
as you get accustomed to your anxiety and become more confident in
your ability, you’ll be more motivated to meet and date even more
women, increasing your confidence and competence further, and
easing your anxiety that much more.
There’s momentum to it, which is absolutely
integral to developing a healthy and successful love life.
The last thing I’ll say about this method
before moving on is that you should only focus on one thing at a
time. And when I say “focus” on one thing at a time, I really mean
only quantify one aspect of your interactions at a time.
So if you want to be less nervous approaching
women, don’t bother yourself worrying about how to get phone
numbers or when to go for the kiss or what texts you should be
writing. Just focus on approaching.
But by the same token, when you’re focusing
on getting physical and assertive with women, don’t worry about
approaching. A very common form of avoidance for men who are
terrified of “later stage” parts of dating women — escalating,
dates, sex, etc. — is that they’ll actually use approaching more
women as a form of avoidance. They’ll have a beautiful woman
totally enrapt with them, and instead of seeing how far they can
push things, they’ll take her number and move on, because they tell
themselves they want to keep “working on approaches.” When
approaching is not their problem. Getting sexual with women is!
Again, some self-awareness is critical. Take
things one at a time, stair-step them slowly until you get not only
comfortable with it, but excited about it, and then move on to the
next thing. That excitement and enthusiasm will bleed over into the
next form of anxiety and motivate you to keep going.
If this sounds like a lot of work, it’s
actually not. It’s actually way less work. If you are afraid of
meeting women, then it means just starting with the simplest step:
ask for the time, join a dating site, ask a friend to introduce
you. And then take it one step at a time, each step challenging
yourself to do a bit more than before. It’s actually quite simple
and if you’re focused about it and don’t get distracted with all
sorts of mundane and extraneous theory, it’s very straightforward
and can be accomplished quickly.
Courage and Boldness
Feeling fear and acting despite it builds
courage. Anytime you’re afraid to do something and feel some
invisible force holding you back, yet you push through it anyway,
you’re building courage within yourself.
Courage is a habit. Courage is a form of
discipline. It’s taking a certain action even though you feel like
doing something else. The difference here is that courage involves
acting against fear, whereas discipline involves acting against
laziness or fatigue.
Courage is built like a muscle. The
stair-stepped exercises in the previous section are designed to
progressively build your courage. The more courage you build, the
more you’ll be capable of bold actions. Bold actions require a lot
of vulnerability and build non-neediness.
Stopping a woman and asking her for the time
requires little courage and is not a bold action. It’s well within
social norms.
Walking up to a group of six people sitting
down, asking to speak to the most attractive woman for a moment,
telling her that you find her beautiful and you’d like to take her
out sometime, is quite bold. It’s bold because it requires a lot of
courage to disrupt social norms and it requires quite a bit of
vulnerability.
But there’s a caveat here. You must
know that you’re interrupting social norms. You must
acknowledge that what you are doing is unusual. If you don’t,
you’ll be seen as someone who is out of touch and oblivious, which
is not attractive.
This is a common mistake that many of the
Social Disconnect types of men make. Since they’re so out of tune
with social norms, they often have no problem behaving in a bold
way. The problem is, they aren’t aware of when they’re being bold
or not.
For instance, I once worked with a guy who
was very socially disconnected. We were in a shopping mall and we
were walking around talking to women together.
As we were going down an escalator, we saw a
very attractive girl going up the up escalator on the other side.
As we passed her I mentioned to him that he should talk to her.
He immediately began running up the down
escalator and shouting to her trying to introduce himself.
Obviously, this is a very awkward and strange
thing to do. And had he been aware of how awkward and strange it
was, he would have been bold. But instead, he was just unaware, and
as such he immediately creeped the girl out.
This is why if you’re ever going to do
something that is unusual — approach a woman in a strange location,
try to kiss her in a strange location, invite her out with you
after just meeting her, etc. — it’s important that you communicate
that you realize what you’re doing is abnormal.
“You know, I’ve never done this before, and I
know we just met, but why don’t you come to the restaurant with
me?”
“Excuse me, this is kind of random, but I
thought you were cute and wanted to meet you.”
The bolder your action, the greater
attraction you’re going to create. The bolder the action, the more
vulnerability you show, and the more you polarize responses.
If you walk around and ask women for the
time, you are not polarizing them very much. Most of them will give
you the time. The worst rejection you’ll ever get may be, “Oh
sorry, I don’t have a watch,” or something similar.
But if you walk around and ask women on
dates, you’re going to get polarized reactions — nervous and
excited yes’s, and tense and reserved no’s. Or maybe a few angry
no’s. If you go even further and try to kiss a woman at an
unexpected time, you’re either going to get a very enthusiastic yes
or an enthusiastic no.
The point is: greater boldness leads to
greater polarization.
This is yet another argument for behaving in
an assertive manner. This is also why one of my mantras that I tell
men is, “Always err on the side of assertiveness.”
Whenever you’re in doubt of what you should
do, err on the side of assertiveness. Choose the bolder action.
Because if you wait around for the safer and less bold opportunity
to make a move on her, chances are the attraction will be less or
may even dwindle.
But bold behavior by itself will only go so
far. Boldness must be molded by charismatic and efficient
communication. Just behaving recklessly and will attract some women
to you, and will give you sexual opportunities (particularly in
party environments), but without communicating in a charming and
interesting manner, and without being aware of social norms, it’s
unlikely you’ll get many women to stick around, and your
relationships will not be that enjoyable.
You can build up an incredibly attractive
lifestyle and persona, focus on the proper demographic, act boldly
and pursue women shamelessly, but if you can’t communicate to them
your intentions and your personality well, then it will be hard to
maintain their interest for very long.
The fifth part will cover how to revamp your
communication and how to make good impressions upon everyone you
meet.