The Dating Process


Like it or not, the dating process
follows a somewhat rigid line. Boy meets girl, asks girl on date,
corresponds with girl, sets up date with girl, corresponds with
girl, sets up second date with girl, repeat until eventually you
bring girl home with you, and at some point you decide if you’re
exclusive, non-exclusive, a casual couple, fuck buddies,
soul-mates, or never want to see each other ever again.
There are exceptions to this process, and the
process can be sped up to a degree, but more or less, there’s a
courtship process that we all follow. Our culture has silently
defined a procedure for these things, and any man who wishes to be
successful with women needs to be aware of the procedure.
The process almost always involves the
following: trading of contact details, talking through text or
phone conversations, going on dates, sex, and figuring out what
kind of relationship (if any) will result. Usually (but not always)
in that order. In certain instances, the contact details and date
can be forgone and you can bring her home (or go home with her) the
day/night you meet her. But these cases are rare and usually
involve meeting a woman in a party or nightclub situation which we
won’t get into a whole lot of depth about.
Phone Numbers
There’s a minor obsession in men’s dating
advice about phone numbers, correspondence, and so-called “text
game” or “flake prevention.”
Flaking is a term often used to describe a
woman who gives you her phone number, says she wants to see you
again, and then either never responds or returns your call, or
never shows up on a date. Flakes can simply be women who never
respond to you or women who respond but keep sidestepping meeting
up with you.
Obsessing about flakes and how to win them
over is an easy trap to fall into. But in my opinion, this is
treating the symptom, not the illness.
The way to prevent flakes is to meet and
attract women who are so interested in you that they would never
consider flaking.
Problem solved.
In my experience, 99% of the so-called flake
prevention strategies guys implement — calling at certain times,
baiting with open-ended texts, pretending to send a text to the
“wrong person” — these will rarely convince a girl who was never
attracted to you to suddenly become attracted to you. And even if
by some chance they do convince her to meet up with you, you’re now
on a date with a woman who has no genuine interest being there with
you.
Similarly, men spend way too much time
obsessing over unimportant details like how many times to text each
day, how soon to call her, when to ask her out, etc. Setting rigid
rules such as “wait three days to ask her out” or “never text her
twice in a row,” greatly limits you and will hinder the unique
connection you spent your time developing with the woman. And by
the way, it’s that connection that’s going to get her out to see
you again, not the clever text you spent 45 minutes coming up
with.
But with that said, here is my version of
“The Rules” to calling and texting women:
- Only ask a woman for her phone number if she seems
genuinely attracted and interested in you. Only ask for her number
if you can see yourself wanting to hang out with her again or
having time to hang out with her again. If you meet a girl who is
in town for a bachelorette party for three days, is drunk, and you
have a serious meeting at work in two days, don’t bother.


- When you ask her for her phone number, don’t come
up with a fancy line or make up a reason. Just ask her for it. If
you’re attracted to her, you shouldn’t be afraid to hide it (you’re
a confident, dominant man, remember?). If she’s attracted to you,
she’ll be more than excited to give it to you. Most women will
always give you their number when you ask. Even if they don’t like
you or have no intention of ever seeing you again, they’ll give it
to you. It’s simply far easier for them to ignore calls from guys
they don’t like than to reject every guy to their face.


- Flakes happen to everybody. Get used to it. There
are simply too many things going on in most attractive women’s
lives to figure out why each one flakes. It could be because her
ex-boyfriend started calling her again. It could be because she met
her soul mate the day after she met you. It could be because she
got in a freak accident and is in the hospital. It could be because
she got sick and was bed-ridden. Sometimes women just don’t feel
like dating for a while. Sometimes they don’t remember you well
because they were drunk when they met you. Sometimes they lose
their phone. Sometimes they just change their mind the next day.
And sometimes they just don’t care enough.


There are a million legitimate reasons women can
flake other than then not being attracted to you. Trying to figure
out which ones are flaking for legitimate reasons and which ones
are not is more or less an impossible task. You’re better off just
letting it go and moving on. In the end, it comes down to the fact
that if she likes you enough, she’ll find a way to make it happen.
If she’s not finding a way to make it happen, then she probably
doesn’t like you as much as you thought she did.


Think of it this way. If Brad Pitt texted her asking
her out, do you think she could suddenly clear her busy work
schedule and move her weekend plans back? I think so. If she’s not
doing that for you, then she’s just not that interested.
- My policy with flakes is “Three strikes you’re
out.” If a woman flakes once, I’ll try her a second time. If she
doesn’t respond the second time, I may or may not give it a third
shot, but typically if I do, I don’t put much effort into the third
attempt. Often I will only try a woman once or twice. If there’s
still nothing after the third attempt, I move on.


A lot of women will give you excuses why they can’t
meet up, cancel dates, push dates back, or simply stop responding.
Sometimes they have legitimate reasons. Sometimes they’re making
excuses. This is why at the first reason they give, I always give
them the benefit of the doubt and try again. The second time, if
I’m particularly interested in them and/or I think they genuinely
have had two legitimate excuses, I will try them one more time.
Often I will even tell them, “OK, last chance though.” After the
third try, I just let them go. It’s not worth the time or effort at
that point.


- I always text within 24 hours of getting her
number. I send a simple text: “Hey Sara, it was nice meeting you.”
That’s it. Most girls who are interested in you will respond
somewhat quickly. The ones who do not respond to this will usually
flake on you.


- From there, I usually wait another day or so and
start a text conversation. I like to reference a conversation we
had when we met in this text to try and keep some continuity. The
goal here is nothing special, just trying to get a little bit of
back and forth going. It’s been over 24 hours and I’m seeing how
warm the lead still is. Typically, if I can get a text conversation
going here, then she’s pretty likely to go on a date with me. If
her responses are few and far between, then she’s likely a
flake.


Don’t get fancy and try to re-invent the wheel here.
Don’t get cute or try to win her over if she’s not responding very
much. Your legwork was put in when you met her, now you’re stuck
with what you earned. I’ve found that the cuter or harder you try
to win girls over by text, the bigger chance you have of looking
needy and desperate and losing them.


Joke and tease her if she’s being responsive. If
she’s not, stick to trying to get her out ASAP.
- Depending how the text conversation goes, I’ll
either ask her out right then and there, or I’ll wait another day
or two depending on my schedule. It used to be expected that you
call women, but texting has quickly overtaken phone calls. Back in
2005 when I started this stuff, I called every number I got. Now I
almost never call a girl unless she specifically asks that I call
her. I would say in the last year, over 90% of my dates have been
set up through texting.
- I have to say this again: don’t get fancy or cute
in your texts. Texting is, in general, an awful medium for
communication. Often if you try to get too sarcastic or witty in
your texts, they can be easily misinterpreted or come off with a
completely different intention than you originally had. And
remember, everything comes back to intention. So clear, blunt
language. I tell guys that I only use texting to organize when she
and I are going to see each other next. Literally, that’s what 90%
of my texts consist of, things like, “Hey, what are you doing
Thursday night?” or “I’m busy this weekend, but I want to see you
again.”


My text conversations are boring. Just to
give you an example of a typical text conversation, I’ve posted a
transcript below of the texting I did with the last girl I went out
on a date with.
Some background first: this was a girl I met
in a nightclub at about 1 AM and spent no more than 60-90 minutes
with. There was light kissing, but mostly just talking and dancing.
No drinking (this is a biggie actually). And before she went home I
mentioned that I’d like to see her the next day. She said sure.
Me: Hey Mary, it was nice meeting you tonight.
Her: You too! :)
Me (next day): Hey, you said you work until 4 PM,
right?
Her: Yes, do you still want to meet?
Me: Yeah. How about 7:30?
Her: Can we do 8?
Me: Sure. In the city center?
Her: Yes, in front of the X restaurant. Do you know
where it is?
Me: Yea, see you there.
Her: See you soon. :)
That’s it. I’d say 75% of my text
correspondence looks like that.
But just to show you the other extreme,
here’s a more unusual text transcript I had with a girl in England
a few months ago. This is about as “gamey” as I ever get.
Me: Hey Natalie, it was nice meeting you
tonight.
Her: Hey, I have your phone number now. ;)
Me: Good, talk to you soon.
Me (next day): Hey Natalie, how was the rest of your
night?
Her: Great. We were tired and went back a bit early
though.
Me: Good. Are you free tomorrow evening? Let’s meet
up for a drink.
Her: OK. When did you have in mind?
Me: How about 8 at X, do you know it?
Her: Yes I do. 8 it is. I’ll text you tomorrow. Good
night.
Me: Good night.
Her (next day): Hey, I’m overloaded at work and may
not be able to meet you tonight. Sorry. I hope you enjoy
England.
Me: Come on Natalie. When you’re old and grey are
you going to wish you worked more or wish you went on more dates
with cute American boys?
Her: Haha! Very true. Let me see what I can do.
Her (later): OK, I finished early. I can meet you.
:)
Notice how the only bit of “game” I threw at
her was when she showed hesitance to meet up. The only reason I did
this is because I knew I was going to lose her if I didn’t amp
things up, show my desire for her again and polarize things a bit
to prevent the flake. I did that. And it worked.
Or did it?
Natalie never showed up. She called me at
about 7:40 PM and explained to me that although she liked me a lot
that because I was leaving England in a few days she couldn’t
justify coming on a date with me. It was clear she felt bad about
it, but her values were clear.
I respected that decision and told her that
it was fine, that she was a beautiful girl, and that she deserves a
great guy who will stick around. And I meant it.
And unfortunately, this has consistently been
my experience. A flake is a flake. No matter what you do. Even if
you can create a temporary illusion that she wants to meet up with
you.
If anything, being cute and trying to impress
her will only hurt you, as it will come across as needy and
unattractive. One of the quickest ways to lose a girl is by texting
her stuff that’s way too try-hard.
When in doubt, be plain and to-the-point.
This often disappoints some guys. They get
really excited about sending fancy or brilliant texts that
magically change a girl’s mind on a dime. Don’t bother. Short of
lying or manipulation, it almost never works.
You’re not going to be texting Shakespearean
Sonnets to her. Get her to agree to meet up as soon as possible and
then do all of the heavy lifting in person, where you can interact
physically, where she can see your intentions and your
non-neediness, and where you’re not limited to 120 characters at a
time or whatever.
The Perfect Date
Despite how nervous you get beforehand, dates
are perhaps the most straightforward part of this entire process.
Go to the right venues, go at the right times, avoid the obvious
pitfalls, and you should be in the clear.
When to Go on Dates:
Don’t do lunch dates, and never make an afternoon date the first
date if possible. Just don’t do it. For whatever reason, nothing
says, “let’s just be friends” more than having lunch together.
Save dates for the nighttime. It builds a
greater sense of expectation. There’s more flexibility to spend
more time together. It’s more of a commitment. And neither of you
are in a rush to be anywhere in an hour. It also leaves the option
open for you or her sleeping over.
As far as when to go, it’s going to depend a
lot on what you’re doing. But you want to allow yourself time for
at least three one-hour activities (more on that later). So
anywhere between 6 PM to 9 PM. Later than that, and you limit your
time together. Earlier than that, and you get a daytime vibe and
the date will usually run out of steam before she has to go home.
You want to time the date so that you are peaking together at
around 10 PM or 11 PM and she has the, “I need to go home, but I
don’t want to yet,” feeling.
Where to Go:
Absolutely no movie dates for first or second dates. Movie dates
are terrible. You don’t get to talk, you sit awkwardly next to each
other, and it’s impossible to touch her without being awkward
(importance of this in the next chapter).
Avoid dinner dates if at all possible.
They’re cliché. They can be somewhat impersonal depending on where
you eat. Once again, it’s almost impossible to touch. And believe
it or not, a lot of women are self-conscious about eating in front
of you, food selection, etc. Also, you can avoid the awkward “who
pays?” situation — which we’ll talk about in the next section.
Good date locations are locations that are
active, participatory, and allow for touching and flirting. Alcohol
can be helpful as well if that’s your style. Some good examples
include comedy clubs, dance classes, museum exhibits, walks in
interesting places (plazas, parks, etc.), concerts, or just
grabbing a drink somewhere.
A lot of places to go will depend on your
town. I recommend using Yelp.com to find interesting places around
you. For instance, there used to be a bowling alley/nightclub venue
near my old apartment in Boston. It was a lot of fun. You could
bowl together (participatory, active, allows flirting) as well as
have a few drinks, and if things went well and we were in a party
mood, we could go downstairs and dance.
Bars and nightclubs are fine if you both are
into those kinds of venues. Just make sure that if you go, you end
up there alone. A date with friends is not a date. This will often
happen if she suggests a bar to go — “Oh, we can meet my friend
Cindy there…” Chances are if she wants to hang out with her friend
with you, then it’s no longer a date.
Finally, you should find venues and
activities that are close to either your place or her place. What I
recommend doing is researching and finding at least 4-6 good date
venues or activities that are within a short drive of your house or
apartment. Even better is if you can find a few places that are
within walking distance.
The logic is simple: the closer the venues
are to your place or hers, the less travel time necessary, the
fewer logistical headaches, and the better the chance of you ending
up at each other’s houses at the end of the night.
Once you’ve researched and found 4-6 venues
and activities near your place that you enjoy doing, that are good
date activities and are easily accessible, it’s time to start
putting them together and do multiple things on each date.
This may sound weird to you, but this is key.
Most men do dinner and then sit at the table for another hour
chatting away. There’s little flirting. No activity. No touching.
No sense of dynamics or change.
On our dates, we are doing things —
lots of things. We’re going bowling, having drinks, dancing,
checking out statues in the park and carriage riding — all in three
hours.
There’s something strange in human
psychology. Our level of intimacy with one another doesn’t just
come from how much we talk about as much as it comes from the
experiences we share. These dates are designed to create as much
mutual experience as possible in the least amount of time possible.
Here are some examples of solid dates:
Meet for coffee  get ice
cream down the street  check out the big
swing in the park  shopping together at
quirky bookstore


Salsa class  drinks next
door afterward  walk to neighborhood
pizza place  video games at your
place
Window shopping at local shopping center
 improv comedy show  quick dinner afterward 
walk around local park
Include dancing if at all possible, as it’s
the most sexual date activity you can have. Also, if you two decide
to drink, try to drink at the second or last venues/activities. You
don't ever want to end up hammered on a date.
How to Behave on a
Date: As I mentioned before, you want your dates to be
interactive. You want to be able to walk around, be able to touch
and be as interactive as possible.
The underlying concept to have on a date is
that you should try to constantly be leading.
Every decision should be yours and she should
be expected to follow it. Remove, “What do you want to do now?”
from your dating vocabulary. Never say it again.
It should be like this: “Hey, let’s grab some
tacos, I know a cool stand over here,” “I got an idea, I’m going to
kick your ass in air hockey,” “Let’s check out the Science museum,
they have an awesome exhibit on the human body,” etc.
As far as what to talk about, your
conversations should be getting deeper and more personal. There
should be less teasing and playful banter and more conversations
about your lives and what’s important to you. Learn about her past,
her passions, her dreams, what her favorite things are.
At the same time, you don’t want to turn this
into a job interview (which too many dinner dates turn into), but
elicit these topics by sharing them yourself.
Finally, the big question in our
post-feminism world: who pays? These days, most women will offer to
pay out of politeness, but you’re supposed to turn them down
because it’s the gentleman thing to do (or something like that).
Look, I didn’t make this stuff up, but after being on probably 100+
dates with dozens of women, and getting into more than a few
awkward situations about paying, this is what works for me: pay
unless she physically pulls out her wallet/credit card and stops
you. Until she physically does that, just pay.
Yes, once in a while you can get women buying
you drinks and stuff — there are even ways to influence them to do
this — but at the end of the day, unless you’re broke, take care of
them. It’s a no-lose move and it will win you points with many of
them.