Your Intentions


All the way back in Chapter 3, we
talked about how vulnerability only holds weight when it’s
communicated unconditionally — that is, when you compliment a woman
or express yourself, you’re not doing it with an ulterior motive,
you’re simply expressing yourself.
In this chapter, I’d like to take that idea
further.
Men mostly communicate through facts,
stories, and data. We discuss sports statistics, how we fixed our
car last weekend, and where we plan on going next month. If a man
says, “I’ll see you at 6 PM,” he typically means it literally. If a
man tells you that he used to be the best basketball player at his
college, you take it at face value, even if he may be exaggerating
a little bit. If a man says he dislikes you, then it means he’s not
your friend anymore and you move on.
Women communicate more in feelings and, more
specifically, through intentions. Sure, they still pay attention to
the facts and stories on the surface, but what’s actually
communicated to them is the intention and feeling underneath.
This is sub-communication.
This is why your girlfriend can get upset and
tell you she hates it when you spend time with your friends one
night, and then the next night she insists you go to your weekly
bowling league and not see any contradiction in her statements. On
the first night, she felt like you weren’t paying enough attention
to her. On the second, she felt secure with you and wants you to be
happy. The issue wasn’t actually your friends, it was simply her
feeling valued.
Needless to say, this sort of stuff often
confuses the hell out of men, often for an entire lifetime.
This is why men often refer women to “crazy,”
“irrational” or “unstable.”
The fact that men are oblivious to the
emotions and intentions that underline everything women say often
makes women feel like men are “heartless,” “cold," "assholes,”
“selfish jerks,” or that they “don’t listen.”
We listen, we’re just usually playing in the
shallow end of the pool.
In Chapter 3, I told the story of the time my
friend walked around asking women if he could pee in their butt.
Obviously, his words were absolutely ridiculous, and all of the
women he approached — both the ones who rejected him and the one he
went home with — didn’t give his words much credit.
But his intention was loud and clear: I don’t
care what you think, I want to have fun tonight, and my idea of fun
is a little extreme because I’m extreme. Obviously, this scared a
few women off. But once he found one who liked his intentions, she
latched on quickly and hard.
That’s an extreme example, but here’s
another, much more common example.
Some dating advice tells men not to
compliment a woman too early or too often. The reason for this is
that most men who read dating advice have poor intentions: they’re
needy and looking to validate themselves through sex or female
affection. So when a man compliments a woman out of neediness, it’s
going to make a woman feel uncomfortable and objectified.
Now if a man compliments a woman out of
genuine appreciation for her, she’s going to hear his intention and
be genuinely appreciative of him as well.
Teasing and flirting with women is another
great example. Many men, when they first begin trying to flirt with
women, will tease them or “neg” them. Ask yourself this, what’s the
difference between a tease and an insult? Both are derogatory
statements. Both often incorporate humor. So what’s the
difference?
Intention. Teasing is done with a fun and
positive intention. Insults are done with a negative intention.
Or what’s the difference between sharing
yourself and bragging? Let’s say you are friends with a celebrity.
What’s the difference between sharing your life experience with a
woman (attractive) and bragging to her (unattractive)?
Hopefully, you’re catching on by now: it’s
intention. What is your intention? Are you trying to impress her
(needy) and therefore bragging? Or are you sharing yourself
(vulnerability) and therefore polarizing her?
This relates directly back to what we talked
about in Chapter 1 in regards to investment, neediness, and
validation. A man who is extremely needy will have intentions
dominated by seeking validation and approval and will therefore be
unattractive regardless of just about anything he says. A man who
is non-needy will have intentions dominated by vulnerability and
will therefore be attractive regardless of what he says.
Obviously, there are technical considerations
in how you communicate to people, which we’ll cover throughout this
chapter and the next. But the overarching point is that what you
actually talk about has far less influence on your results than
your intentions.
Everything in this chapter and next assumes
you are acting based on the right intentions. Remember, women don’t
see your features, they see how you present yourself. They don’t
hear your words, they hear your intentions. If you suffer from
chronic rejection, then you are presenting yourself poorly and/or
have poor intentions. In both cases, you’re needy, and therefore,
you will always be seen as unattractive until you are able to
invest in yourself.
Creepiness
The number one fear deterring men from openly
expressing their sexual desires towards women is a fear of being
perceived as “creepy.”
Before we jump into what creepiness is
exactly, and what women mean when they complain about it, I need to
give the same type of painful-truth serum I gave for rejection:
There’s no such thing as a man who is adored
by women who isn’t also creepy some of the time.
The fact of life is that if you are a man who
expresses his sexuality freely (and you should), some women, some
of the time, are going to find you creepy. It’s simply unavoidable.
No matter how cool, rich, good-looking and charming you are, at
some point, somewhere a woman is going to be creeped out by you.
Live with it.
So as a wise friend of mine sometimes says,
“Give yourself permission to be creepy.” Don’t try to be
creepy. And definitely don’t walk around looking to intimidate
women. Simply accept that sometimes, miscommunications happen,
awkward situations occur, and things get misconstrued. Such is
life. As long as you’re respectful in how you express yourself,
there should never be a serious problem.
There’s no other way. And look, it’s not the
end of the world. There’s no Creepy Police who come and handcuff
you and throw you in Creep prison where you’ll wait for you court
date where you’re charged for being creepy in the third degree.
Creepiness is one of these vague concepts
that everyone knows, but no one can really put into words. If you
ask women what creepiness is, they’ll give you roundabout answers
and inevitably fall into examples of creepiness rather than an
actual definition.
Of course, their examples are all over the
map and seem to have absolutely no rhyme or reason to them.
(For what it’s worth, I asked a bunch of
female friends this question and I got answers with examples of
creepiness that spanned from “he had dainty hands” to “he grabbed
me really hard on the arm for no reason,” to “putting too many
smileys in text messages,” to “he looks at you in a funny way when
he talks.” As is often the case, women are terrible authorities on
why they like/dislike something, all they know is that they
like/dislike it.)
So, at the risk of sounding like a creep,
allow me throw my hat in the ring and actually give a concrete
definition for the phenomenon:
Creepiness is behaving in a way that makes a
woman feel insecure sexually.
The further you get out of line with your
intentions, the more distrustful she will be of your actions and
words. And the more distrustful she is, the more insecure she will
feel and the creepier you become. For instance, if you approach a
woman and stand there and talk about the weather, but you’re
staring at her rack the whole time while licking your lips, then
you will come across as creepy. Your actions and words are
completely out of line with your intentions and she can see
that.
Even if you tell her honestly, “You have
great tits,” you will be creepy. Not for lack of intention, but
because she doesn’t know you and most women are not comfortable
being sexual around men they don’t know. Trust takes time. She has
to see that your actions line up with your intentions before she
can feel comfortable exposing herself to you and making herself
vulnerable.
Women have a lot more to lose from expressing
their sexuality than men do. They make babies. We don’t. They get
raped and/or sexually assaulted at a startlingly high rate. We
don’t. They have five thousands years of sexist cultural history
making them feel like a slut. We don’t.
The second you make them feel uncomfortable
sexually is the second you become a creep and the second she’s
finding an excuse to get away from you as fast as she can.
This is why vulnerability is so huge. When
you’re vulnerable around someone you don’t know, it elicits trust
in them and they will become more vulnerable toward you in return.
The more vulnerable a woman is willing to be around you, the less
likely you will be to creep her out.
(Caveat 1: Vulnerability is still subject to
the right intentions. If you tell a girl a sob story for no other
reason than to get her to feel sorry for you and sleep with you,
then guess what, you’re still creepy!)
(Caveat 2: Sex can be viewed as the ultimate
act of vulnerability for a woman. The more vulnerable you make
yourself around her — by leading, by sharing your intentions, by
being honest — the more she will trust you and become vulnerable in
return. Sex is a side effect of that mutual vulnerability.)
Paradoxically, the way to interact with women
in a vulnerable way and, therefore, the way to combat creepiness,
is to accept that some women will find you creepy some of the time.
Just as with rejection, the more you’re willing to risk it, the
less it will happen.
The more comfortable you are with women
finding you creepy, and the more uninhibited and vulnerable your
actions and words are around women, and the more aware and
respectful you are of their interests and desires, the less likely
they will be to find you creepy. The more reserved and closed up
you are about your intentions, the more you attempt to manipulate
her and mislead her about what you want and who you are, the more
you disregard her feelings and actions toward you, the more likely
you are to become creepy.
Obviously, there are technical aspects of
communication that affect this as well. Bad body language, strange
conversation topics, uncalibrated humor, inappropriate touching —
these things can all make you creepy even with the best of
intentions. This is why I say that at some point you have to accept
that you’re going to creep some women out and that’s OK. Because
the alternative is to hide your sexuality and hope a woman comes to
you — and well, we all know how well that works out.
Sexual Tension
Flirting is the opposite of creepiness.
Flirting is expressing your sexuality in a way that makes a woman
feel sexually secure.
Sometimes the sexuality of your behavior is
overt, sometimes it’s subtle, sometimes it’s implied. But when done
correctly, it’s accepted and appreciated by women.
If you research dating advice and pick up
tips, you’ll find dozens and dozens of methods of “building
attraction” with women. Some of the more popular ones include
teasing, bantering, negging, cocky/funny, push/pull, qualification,
statements of interest, false disqualifiers, roleplaying, leading
and pacing, eliciting values, magic tricks, cold-reading, false
takeaways, word games, hand games, betting and competition,
etc.
Chances are, you’ve read or are familiar with
at least a few of these concepts. If you don’t know what most of
them are, then good, don’t worry about it. No, I’m serious — don’t
worry about it, because they all follow the same basic pattern.
Flirting is expressing your sexuality to a
woman in a way that makes her feel secure expressing her sexuality
back towards you.
In a nutshell, what a lot of men refer to as
“game” is their ability to flirt with women. How well can they
express their sexuality to women with positive responses? If they
can do it often, they have “game.”
The tactics or strategies used (teasing,
etc.) all do this in their own ways, but they all follow the same
pattern. For the sake of time and space (and boredom), I’ll be
grouping most methods of flirting into two different groups:
teasing and boldness. Both teasing and bold types of flirting
(whether it’s negging, false takeaways, or roleplaying) follow the
same basic formula: they all involve breaking rapport in order to
generate sexual tension.
Scientific research shows that sexual tension
builds when the uncertainty of potential sexual possibilities is
presented in an interaction.
For example, if I say something with implied
sexual innuendo like, “Well, that’s cool you are into cats, maybe I
can come over and play with your pussy for a while,” this generates
sexual tension because, assuming she doesn’t throw her drink in my
face or slap me, it leaves the possibility of a future sexual
encounter on the table. It’s a story with no ending, the human
brain wants to know what happens next. And in this case, what
happens next is probably something sexual.
Teasing type behaviors generate sexual
tension because they generate uncertainty as to whether or not
you’re actually interested in a woman. In the example above,
depending on the context and situation, I could be totally joking
and being facetious. Or I could be totally serious and masking my
desires behind a thinly-veiled joke. She doesn’t know. And that’s
what makes it so good. The uncertainty generates the tension.
If you tease a woman about her hair, telling
her she looks like ET with a perm, or that your grandmother once
owned a wig like that, you accomplish sexual tension because you
are sending mixed signals. Your intentions are sending a “Yes, I
like you,” signal, while your words are sending a, “No, I don’t,”
signal. This generates uncertainty and, therefore, sexual
tension.
This is why most dating advice in western
culture, to both men and women, encourages you to send mixed
messages, “play hard to get,” or play games with one another. Sure,
it distorts intentions, but it also generates uncertainty and
therefore, sexual tension.
But one can flirt by being clear with one’s
intentions as well. One can state one’s sexual desires clearly or
actually even move to make those sexual desires happen. It’s
counterintuitive, but this can generate a lot of uncertainty and
sexual tension as well.
For instance, let’s say you meet a woman and
just come right out and say, “I think you’re beautiful, I’d like to
take you on a date.”
A lot of men cringe at this idea. Needy men
hate it because they think it will make them creepy. Narcissistic
men hate it because they believe they’re giving their power
away.
But in reality, it’s one of the most powerful
and practical things you can say. Not only is it vulnerable, as
we’ve discussed at length, but it also builds far more sexual
tension.
But how? If she already knows you like her,
how can it build tension? There’s no uncertainty.
Oh, but there is. It’s just not immediately
obvious. Observe:
1. First of all, a direct statement like that is
polarizing. So if a woman is not interested in you, she will let
you know then and there. If she is interested in you, this bold
statement will make her so excited that you will also know then and
there. Either way, you win.
2. Women are turned on by being desired, remember?
They are aroused by men who perform bold behaviors towards them. So
it turns her on.
3. It also demonstrates that you are not needy,
which makes you more attractive to her.
4. So now we have an aroused woman who is
interested, and an attractive man who is bold and vulnerable. And
both have implicitly or explicitly suggested sexual interest.
Suddenly this opens up all sorts of new questions and
opportunities: What is going to happen next? He’s so bold and
direct, I have no idea what he’ll say or do. Does he want to kiss
me? Does he want to fuck me? Do I want to fuck him? I do and I
don’t. I don’t know what to do. When is he going to touch me? What
will it be like? Will I love it?
See, if a man is having an innocuous
conversation with a bunch of small talk, there is never any
uncertainty in the woman’s mind as to where things stand. The
conversation is shallow and simple and so there’s no question as to
why they’re talking or the significance of what they’re talking
about.
If a man begins to flirt with a woman by
teasing her, then suddenly he adds a new dimension by creating
uncertainty: Does he like me or not? Why is he flirting with
me?
But if a man goes the bold and vulnerable
route, and is willing to risk rejection, he is rewarded by creating
massive amounts of sexual tension, because in a single stroke you
have transported the context away from, “What do we talk about
next?” to “What will he say or do with me next?”
This is extremely powerful.
Of course, this is often easier said than
done. Flirting this way requires showing vulnerability, risking
rejection, and/or potentially being creepy. And at first, you may
flirt in needy and supplicant ways, repelling women even faster
than you did when you were just plain and boring. But eventually,
exposing yourself and your sexual desires will force you to be less
invested, more confident, more dominant, and more attractive. The
teasing will help by creating the perception of non-neediness, and
the boldness will make women more and more receptive to your
eventual sexual advances.
But unlike fears of living an attractive
lifestyle, flirting and expressing your sexuality requires
communicating effectively. It requires competency at certain social
behaviors. And social behaviors, like any other kind of behavior,
aren’t simply picked up overnight. They must be built and honed
through practice.
Developing an Emotional Connection
Your ability to connect with a woman
emotionally is proportional to how self-aware you are of your own
emotional processes and motivations.
As described in Chapter 2, self-awareness and
vulnerability will cause you to behave in a less needy manner, they
give her the chance to know the “real you,” to trust you, and to
open her own emotions up to you.
Ultimately, this is what most women want. If
you look at romance novels — basically the female version of porn —
they all follow more or less the exact same pattern: hard and
rugged bad-boy type male hero is troubled but strong, and as he
slowly opens up and shares his true emotions and desires with the
heroine, she’s able to support him, to save him and ultimately fall
in love with him. Of course, they live happily ever after.
This is more or less the blueprint of
seduction: a strong, high status, attractive exterior (lifestyle
and looks), fearless, and able to open up and share your vulnerable
side with her. Women get weak in the knees for this shit. And it’s
not even conscious most of the time.
All that’s required is a certain level of
emotional self-awareness and vulnerability in your
interactions.
And let me tell you, emotional connections
are powerful. Far more powerful than any sort of tactics or
tricks you may learn in other books. When you connect with women
emotionally, they really open up to you in ways that you can’t
imagine, your interactions and relationships with them become these
rich and unique experiences that can never be replicated, the sex
is far better, and all mind games, flakes and ambivalence goes out
the window.
A lot of pick up and dating advice is what I
call “attraction obsessed.” It has a constant, incessant harping on
being the most attractive/alpha guy possible — usually by employing
all sorts of tricks, games, tactics, techniques, manipulation and
other falsehoods. Attraction obsession comes from a place of
insecurity. It seeks validation. It’s needy behavior and,
therefore, self-sabotaging in the long run.
It's not about attraction. She's attracted to
men all the time but doesn't sleep with any of them or date them.
Women actually don't sleep with most men they're attracted to
because they would feel slutty or cheap.
Her feeling slutty or cheap isn't about an
"Oh, I put out on a first date," thing. It's not about number of
dates, hours spent together, or how many dinners you bought
her.
Feeling slutty is about sleeping with a man
who doesn't care about her or who hasn’t connected with her. If she
doesn't trust you or isn't 100% convinced that you really like her
and care about her, then she's not going to do it. And if she does,
then she’ll regret it and feel dirty.
So how do you develop deep and lasting
emotional connections with women, connections that will blow your
mind and heart away as well as hers too? Connections that will give
you some of the best nights and sex of your life?
Glad you asked.
Here’s the basic pattern, and you should
recognize a lot of overlap here with Chapter 2:
- Becoming aware of your own emotions, motivations,
and life story.
- Taking the lead by sharing those emotions,
motivations, and life story first.
- Sharing first creates trust and encourages her to
open up and share herself in return.
- Ideally, the more this goes on, the more personal
the stories become and the deeper the emotions are by which you
connect.
For instance, take a simple conversation
about music you two like. She likes Empire of the Sun. You like
Empire of the Sun. Instead of just saying, “I really like Empire of
the Sun,” you can expand and talk about why you like Empire
of the Sun.
Instead of just, “I like Empire of the Sun,”
you could say, “I love Empire of the Sun. They always remind me of
my brother. My brother used to drive me to school for years, and he
would blast Empire of the Sun every morning. Looking back, it meant
a lot to me, my brother taking care of me like that. My dad was
always too busy. So Empire of the Sun always reminds me of that.
Those moments of appreciation that you don’t recognize until years
later.”
Wow, that’s a little intense, right? That’s
the idea. If you feel uncomfortable just reading that and imagining
yourself saying something like it, then that’s good. That’s
vulnerability. And ultimately, that’s what’s going to make you an
attractive man who can emotionally connect with women.
Things can go even deeper as well. For
instance, it’s one thing to talk about jobs. Maybe she’s a lawyer
and came from a poor immigrant background. It may be obvious that
she worked very hard and is very ambitious. You could relate to
that by sharing how when you were a teenager, a couple of your best
friends were injured in a car accident and how that affected you,
scared you straight, and helped you become grateful for every day
you have, how you started taking advantage of your time and
potential and worked very hard to get where you are.
Whatever it is, open up about it. Challenge
yourself to go one level deeper.
And the most important rule of emotional
connection is to relate to feelings, not facts. Seduction is about
feelings, not facts. This is why you can often meet a woman who
shares a lot in common with you — same home town, same
occupation, same interests, lives on the same street — and have no
connection or chemistry whatsoever. But then you can meet a woman
who has lived an entirely different life from you, but if you can
relate to the emotional struggles and emotional realities that
she’s gone through, you can connect deeply with her.
She may be a rich girl whose father died when
she was eight and who was sent to boarding school, and you may have
had to work your way up from poverty in India and then move to the
USA, but emotionally, you can relate very deeply — the alienation
from home, growing up with no sense of family or support other than
achievement, feeling isolated by your talent.
Everybody on this planet shares a handful of
universal emotional realities: ambition, shame, alienation,
loneliness, achievement, regret, hardship, friendship, love,
heartbreak. We’ve all experienced it. The facts change, the
feelings are the same. I don’t care how shallow or dumb or weird or
annoying she is, she has it somewhere in her. It’s your job to dig
it out and connect with it. That’s where the gold is. That’s where
the real magic happens. Challenge yourself to find it. Because once
you do, you’ll never go back.
And the biggest misconception about
generating a strong emotional connection is that it obligates you
to some sort of commitment. It doesn’t. Although it’s more likely
to cause you two to want to commit to one another, a relationship
commitment is an intellectual construct, emotional connection
happens organically on an unconscious level.
Be careful though, some women will
feel cheated if you get too close to them without following through
on any sort of commitment. Our culture has hammered it into women’s
head that emotion equals commitment equals happily-ever-after, but
that’s just rarely the case. So make sure when you connect with
women on a deep level, they can handle it — that they’re conscious
enough to understand your expectations and that just because you
feel a lot with each other, you’re not necessarily obligated to one
another.
Building and Breaking Habits
Your communication skills are a series of
overlapping habits. You have habits that influence when and how you
make eye contact with people, how you speak, your voice
inflections, what kinds of questions you ask, whether you lead the
conversation or follow, whether you’re curious about others or
self-centered, how often you smile, look away or laugh. The list
goes on and on.
If you have trouble relating to people,
particularly women, then chances are you’ve developed communication
habits that are unattractive and are not serving you well.
Some of these habits are simple to learn and
fix, such as making more eye contact. Others are more difficult to
notice and harder to fix, for instance deferring to the opinion of
others when making an observation.
The specific habits that are attractive and
unattractive will be covered in the next chapter. But for now, I
want to wrap up this chapter by going over the process by which you
can build and break these habits.
A lot of men get the wrong idea. They’ll read
some dating advice saying something like, “touch her on the arm
when you smile at her.” Then they’ll go out and do it and it’ll
feel very awkward and stilted, so they’ll never do it again.
The reason it feels awkward and stilted is
because they’ve never done it before. It’s not a habit for them
yet. In fact, not touching a woman when they smile is a
habit, and they’re trying to break it. Habits are hard to break.
They take time. And you have to do them repeatedly.
The trick is to identify the good/bad habits
you want to build or break and the focus on them consciously until
they’re second nature. This actually doesn’t take a long time. For
simple things such as eye contact or posture, it may only take a
few weeks. For things such as touching, or making statements
instead of questions, it may be even shorter.
Either way, the more you implement the
habits, the better your reactions from women will be, thereby
increasing your motivation to implement the habits further.
Basically, what I’m saying here, is that
everything described in the next chapter is not an overnight fix,
you have to go out and do it over and over again.
And just as with desensitizing yourself to
your anxieties, you want to focus on one at a time, two at the
most.
Another problem many men run into is that
they learn that they need to make strong eye contact, lean back on
their back foot, touch on the approach, make observations about her
features, qualify her on her passions, smile when she smiles and
touch her when she laughs all at the same time.
So they go out, and get completely jumbled up
and don’t know what to focus on and are unable to focus on all of
the behaviors at the same time.
It often actually makes their interactions
much worse.
We won’t be doing that. In fact, I think a
lot of the tiny habits listed above are overrated. I’ll be
presenting attractive social habits in more general terms so that
1) you have fewer things clogging your brain, and 2) there will
still be room to express your personality and unique ticks.
You’ll also notice that many of these habits
are directly correlated with overcoming fears and anxieties as
discussed in Chapters 9 and 10. For instance, developing the habit
of touching a woman when you make a joke relates directly to an
anxiety many men feel about showing sexual interest. The habit of
smiling when you introduce yourself to somebody ties into the
anxiety of meeting new people.
Many of these behaviors are linked to your
anxieties. And the interesting thing is that you can resolve them
from both sides: fixing your outer behaviors will help alleviate
your internal anxiety, and alleviating your internal anxiety will
help fix up your outer behaviors.
As always, attractive social behaviors are
rooted in a comfort with making yourself vulnerable, an honest
expression of your desires, and ultimately, embodying non-neediness
and investing in yourself.