Rejection and Success


Business guru Dan Kennedy once said,
“Your ability to deal with the failure will determine how much you
get to deal with success.”
My harshest rejection ever was in Austin,
Texas, probably winter of 2007. I was out with my best friend late
on a Friday night. I see two cute girls dancing by themselves. I
approach. I lightly touch one on the shoulder and begin to
speak.
She spins around, “GET THE FUCK AWAY FROM ME!
DON’T YOU EVER FUCKING TOUCH ME!”
“Whoa, chill out, I didn’t do anything!” I
try to blurt out between her shrieks. I’m not heard. She shoves me
backward while screaming at me. I push her arms back to protect
myself.
The slap comes hard and fast. Totally
uncalled for. “GET THE FUCK AWAY FROM ME! DON’T YOU EVER FUCKING
TOUCH ME AGAIN!”


Before I know it bouncers are removing me
from the bar.
“I didn’t even do anything, I don’t even know
her,” I say.
“Yeah, whatever buddy,” the bouncer says. I
get outside and my friend comes out to meet me. “Dude, what fucked
up thing did you say now?”
“I didn’t say anything.” He looks at
me skeptically. “No, seriously, I didn’t say anything.”
“Yeah, whatever.”
Another night, another bar. This was probably
sometime in 2006. I’m talking to a super cute blonde. College girl.
Sorority. Ditsy as hell and a true pain to interact with. You know
those people who interrupt you constantly and redirect every
possible topic of conversation back to some inane story about
themselves? She was one of those. It was like being socially
waterboarded.
But she was hot. And I was young and needy
and crazy horny and honestly had nothing better to do. So I talked
to her, painfully and begrudgingly.
Somewhere in between trying to decide whether
to drown myself in alcohol, to drown her in alcohol, to stab myself
in the face with a broken beer bottle or to stab her … she let
loose this little gem:
“By the way, thanks for not being ugly.”
I disregarded the compliment and honed in on
what was so shallow, so immature, and I just couldn’t stand by idly
any longer.
“Excuse me?” I asked.
“I said, thanks for not being ugly.”
I imagine my mouth fell open here. But of
course, she missed my incredulity and continued on with her monolog
(she was good at monolog).
“See, no offense, but talking to guys in bars
is so boring. And tonight, nothing but these hideously ugly guys
have been talking to me and buying me drinks. But at least you’re
not ugly.”
At least?
She continues: “To be honest, I can’t stand
ugly people. Like, it seriously hurts my soul to look at ugly
people. Like, I honestly feel physical pain if I have to look at an
ugly person.”
I couldn’t hold back anymore, “You must not
own any mirrors then.”
Her face: disbelief, horror, then anger — in
that order, half a second max — then her fruity drink came flying
onto my face, followed by a dainty slap.
“Asshole!”
She stormed back to her friends.
When I first started going out and trying to
meet girls, I used to be horrified at the thought of something like
the above stories happening to me. The idea of getting slapped, or
a drink thrown on me, or getting thrown out of a bar, these were
all nightmares that would probably have visibly shaken me at the
thought of them happening. Maybe you feel the same way right
now.
But both of these memories are still bright
in my mind, as they’re some of the most important learning
experiences I had with women — even more important than many of my
successes.
Believe it or not, being slapped by these
women taught me a lot about attraction, as much as anything else
that I’ve experienced. For starters, being slapped by a woman is
not the end of the world, or even of the interaction. It’s simply
an emotional response. And as a highly emotional response, I’ll
always take being slapped over indifference or boredom any day.
It’s polarizing. And polarizing women is more important than being
pleasant to them.
Being slapped also taught me that you can’t
always control how people react to you. Some people are completely
out of their minds or they behave very inappropriately. You can’t
help this. You cannot control what happens in every interaction.
The sooner you accept this, the better off you will be.
Sometimes you’ll deserve being rejected.
Sometimes you won’t. I don’t regret what I said to the sorority
girl, though in hindsight, I probably didn’t need to be rude to her
— if that happened today, I’d just excuse myself and walk away.
As with any type of failure, it’s not until
you’ve been rejected a certain amount that you realize how
insignificant it actually is, how you spent so much time worrying
about nothing, and how you’re free to act however you choose.
The reason men fear rejection is because
they’re operating on other peoples’ truths, not their own. In fact,
men who fear rejection tend to be oblivious to their own truth
because if they were aware of their own desires, needs and values,
what would they have to be afraid of? Why would they ever hesitate
to expose their vulnerability to others?
Most men with weak grasps of their own truth
fantasize about the ability to never be rejected, ever. Not only is
this a manifestation of their neediness, but it’s unrealistic.
Being rejected saves me so much time and effort. If I had to go on
a date with every single girl I found even mildly attractive, I’d
probably lose my mind.
It’s Usually Not About You
As soon as you realize that 95% of this
attracting women stuff has nothing to do with you, is the moment
you become free to pursue what you want without hesitation or
fear.
When you get out there and start meeting a
lot of women, you’ll begin to notice that there’s a lot to be said
about “the right person at the wrong time.” I can’t tell you how
many times I’ve met an amazing woman, but some circumstance was
standing in the way. It happens all the time. It may be that she’s
on vacation and flying 2,000 miles home tomorrow. Or that she just
got back together with her long-term boyfriend and doesn’t want to
screw it up. Or that her dog just died and she really doesn’t feel
like talking tonight. Or that her ex-boyfriend has been calling her
and harassing her and she just wants to be left alone. Or that the
last guy who she went on a date with grabbed her ass and treated
her like shit and he had the same name as you.
There are a million extraneous circumstances
completely outside of your control and at any given time, a large
chunk of the women you meet and talk to are going to be
experiencing one of them. The best you can do is to let it go and
remember: it’s not about you.
This is why we pursue women based on
our truth. This is why we polarize women as soon as
possible. This is why we approach women looking to see if she
fits our values and needs and not the other way around.
Most men, when they meet women, are thinking
something like, “I hope she likes me,” or “I hope she doesn’t
embarrass me or reject me.” It’s all about them. And therefore,
when things don’t go anywhere, the men take it personally — they
get upset or angry or butt-hurt that this random stranger with
breasts isn’t laughing at their lame joke right now.
Instead of thinking, “I wonder if she’ll like
me,” think, “I wonder what she’s like?”


Instead of thinking, “I hope she doesn’t
reject me,” think, “I hope I'll find out if she’s right for
me.”
The beauty is that whether she falls in love
with you on the spot or she throws a drink in your face… you’ve
succeeded. You’ve found out the truth. Your curiosity is fulfilled
and you can now decide whether you should move on or not.
I see every rejection simply as some form of
incompatibility. Whether she thinks I’m a total creep, or she’s
crazy about me but we live on different continents, or she’s in a
horrible mood when I ask her out, or she thinks I’m cute but has
different values and interests than me — whatever the reason, if a
woman ever rejects me, it’s because she’s not compatible with me.
It may be a permanent incompatibility. It may be a temporary
incompatibility. But the point is that if she liked me enough,
she’d be willing to work at making it happen with me. And if she
doesn’t, then that just means it’s wrong person — or right person,
wrong time. And that’s fine.
Remember, it’s “Fuck Yes!” or no. And if I’m
not getting a “Fuck Yes!” then I’d much rather have a no than a
“Meh, OK.”
Redefining Success
The concept of “success” in modern dating
advice is often skewed. It’s influenced on the one side from
traditional roles and rules — get a nice girlfriend, get married,
etc. — and on the other side by unrealistic expectations and social
pressures by other men — to be “the man,” you have to bed dozens of
women, that you should never be rejected, you should be banging
models and “10’s,” etc. Men put a lot of pressure on one another
and shame one another for being rejected and this develops an
unhealthy culture of masculinity based around neediness rather than
genuine self-expression.
Choosing how we define success with women is
vitally important. If you choose the wrong way to define success
for yourself, then the months or years of effort you put into
achieving that goal will go to waste.
For instance, men who define success for
themselves as how many women they can have sex with will waste away
time pursuing and manipulating women whom they don’t necessarily
enjoy or aren’t even that attracted to in the name of achieving the
“success” which they’ve defined for themselves.
This isn’t a shooting range we’re on here.
We’re talking about the health of our emotional lives. Women and
our relationships are one and the same with our emotional health,
and so the way in which we perceive women and relationships is
going to be reflected in our emotional well-being.
If you choose to believe “success” with women
is determined by which woman chooses you or how much money you can
provide — well, then there’s a good chance you’re going to be quite
lonely followed by ending up with the nearest woman capable of
tolerating you for a lifetime.
If you choose to believe “success” with women
is a lay count or some other statistical data point, then your love
life will become just as objectified as the women you meet, and
although you’ll have the quantity of interactions to back you up on
paper, all emotional quality will be lost, along with your
happiness.
I define success in a qualitative way:
maximizing happiness with whichever woman/women I prefer to be
with.
Success = Maximizing happiness with
whichever woman/women we prefer
This may seem like an obvious statement, but
the implications are actually quite profound. For most of the men
in the world, their “success” with women is defined by:
Being married or not being
single.
- Never being rejected.
- Dating a woman who is more attractive than his
friends’ girlfriends.
- How many women they can approach or have a date
with.
- Quantity of women rather than quality of
women.
- If she fits some stereotype of what “beauty”
is.
- If she’s the kind of woman you’ve been raised to
think you should date.
When we define success as finding the
relationship(s) that will maximize our happiness, our approach
takes a completely new light. Instead of waiting and hoping for a
woman to select us, instead of racking up numbers, instead of
winning bragging rights, instead of avoiding rejections — our
success is defined by screening through as many women as possible
until we find the ones we enjoy and the ones who enjoy us.
Suddenly, rejection goes from hurting our
success rate to often helping it. Having a great date with a woman
who wants to wait to have sex with you can become a far greater
success than that woman who bangs your brains out an hour after
meeting you.
We screen through these women by polarizing
them. We are polarizing them by sharing our truth with them openly
and freely. And when we do this, women will either become
incredibly attracted to us or they will reject us. Either way,
we’ll be the happier for it.
And not only do we pursue and polarize the
women we believe will make us happy, but we also push the
interaction. Some men become satisfied with how many women they can
kiss or how many phone numbers they can collect. This is not
success. This is not success because you are not maximizing
your relationships with these women. These metrics are part of the
process. There is no happiness inherent in owning more phone
numbers than anyone else. You’re chasing validation, not
fulfillment. You are not dating them, sleeping with them, becoming
intimate with them or even committing to them. Get out there and
expose yourself. Open yourself up and find what makes you happy.
Yes, that will mean you’ll probably get hurt. But so what? The best
things in life don’t come easily.
So it’s time to get into the nitty-gritty. So
far we’ve spent most of the book being introspective and talking
about our emotional lives. Whether we get any specific woman or not
depends on our level of investment relative to our investment in
ourselves. This is non-neediness. We build non-neediness through
vulnerability. We practice vulnerability by being honest.
There are three ways in which we are honest.
And those three ways will make up the bulk of this book. The three
ways are 1) living based on our values (lifestyle); 2) becoming
comfortable with our intentions (boldness); and 3) by expressing
our sexuality freely (communication).
The first way of expressing our truth
involves developing a lifestyle that makes us happy. The second way
of expressing truth is by being courageous and fighting through our
fears and anxieties. And the third way of expressing truth is by
communicating well and being uninhibited in our sexuality.
Choosing to not live a lifestyle based on our
values and interests is only being dishonest with ourselves. It
reflects a higher investment in others than in oneself. Therefore,
it is unattractive.
Not acting on our desires and asserting
ourselves where appropriate is showing more investment in others
than ourselves. It is therefore unattractive.
And not communicating our thoughts, feelings,
and desires freely and clearly also demonstrates more investment in
others than in ourselves. This is also unattractive.
Lifestyle, Courage, and Communication: I
refer to these as the Three Fundamentals.