Power in Vulnerability


When most men hear the word
“vulnerability,” their immediate reaction is to associate it with
weakness. In general, men are raised to withhold their emotions, to
not show weakness, and to ignore any hint of introspection. On top
of that, most of the popular dating advice out there encourages
guys to be aloof, standoffish, judgmental, and at times, scathing
towards women.
Men have a lot of negative assumptions about
the idea of being more vulnerable and opening up to their emotions.
Chances are it makes you a little skeptical or queasy to even see
me writing about this.
Don’t worry, I’m not going to have you hold
hands around a campfire with some wimpy support group and cry about
your spirit crystal or share stories about your power animal.
I want you to think of vulnerability in a
more broad way. Not just emotional vulnerability (although we’ll
get to that), but physical vulnerability, social vulnerability.
For instance, making yourself vulnerable
doesn’t just mean being willing to share your fears or
insecurities. It can mean putting yourself in a position where you
can be rejected, saying a joke that may not be funny, asserting an
opinion that may offend others, introducing yourself to a group of
people you don’t know, telling a woman that you like her and want
to date her. All of these things require you to stick your neck out
on the line emotionally in some way. You’re making yourself
vulnerable when you do them.
In this way, vulnerability represents a form
of power, a deep and subtle form of power. It’s courageous, even. A
man who’s able to make himself vulnerable is saying to the world,
“Screw the repercussions; this is who I am, and I refuse to be
anyone else.” He’s saying he is non-needy and high status.
Most people think of a man who’s vulnerable
as a man who cowers in the corner and begs others to accept him or
not hurt him. This is not vulnerability; this is surrender. It’s
weakness.
Think of it this way, there are two men. One
stands tall, looks straight ahead. Looks people in the eye when he
speaks to them. Says what he thinks and is comfortable if some
people disagree with him. When he makes a mistake, he shrugs it off
and apologizes if necessary. When he sucks at something, he admits
it. He’s unafraid to express his emotions, even if that means he
gets rejected because of them sometimes. He has no problem moving
on to people who don’t reject him, but instead like him for who he
is.
The second man hunches over, his eyes dart
around and he is unable to look someone in the eye without getting
uncomfortable. He puts on a cool persona that is always aloof. He
performs. He avoids saying things that may upset others, and
sometimes even lies to avoid conflict. He’s always trying to
impress people. When he makes a mistake, he tries to blame others
or pretend like it didn’t happen. He hides his emotions and will
smile and tell everyone he’s fine even when he’s not. He’s scared
to death of rejection. And when he is rejected, it sends him
reeling, angry, and desperate to find a way to win back the
affection of the person who doesn’t like him.
Which one of these two men is more powerful?
Which one is more vulnerable? Which one is more comfortable with
himself? Which one do you think women would be more attracted
to?
From an evolutionary perspective,
vulnerability makes perfect sense as an indicator to women of male
status and fitness. Let’s say there’s a tribe of 20 men, all
hunter-gatherers, all men with more or less equal possessions (or
lack thereof).
Some of the men in the tribe are constantly
reactive to what the other men tell them. They don’t admit faults.
They change their behavior and what they say to win the approval of
the other men. When something doesn’t go their way, they look to
blame someone else. What would this say about their status in their
tribe? If they’re basing all of their behavior on the approval of
the other men and are constantly covering up their weaknesses, it
says that they’re low status, not trustworthy, unconfident, and
probably not going to be a dependable father.
Now imagine other men in the same tribe who
are unfazed by the neediness or temper tantrums of the other men
around them. They focus purely on the task at hand and don’t change
their behavior based on what others think of them. When challenged,
they stand up for themselves, but when they’re wrong, they also
admit their fault since they see no reason to hide their weakness.
They have a sense of honor. They don’t react to any of the other
men around them; rather, the other men react to them.
This behavior implies high status, a man who
is dependable, comfortable in his strengths and weaknesses, a man
who can be counted on and who is likely to rise through the ranks
and provide for his offspring.
He’s likely to succeed and likely to be a
dependable father.
It’s likely that women have been naturally
selected to choose high-status men based on their
non-neediness first, and then their looks and
accomplishments second, since looks and accomplishments tend to be
reflections of non-needy behavior, not the other way around. This
non-needy behavior indicates a man who is comfortable with
vulnerability, who isn’t afraid to express who he is, warts and
all, to the world. This plays out in multiple arenas — in the life
decisions he makes (Part III), the extent of his courage (Part IV)
and the way he communicates to others (Part V).
Chances are, if you’re reading this and are
bad with women, then you’re bad with women because you don’t
express your true feelings and intentions very well. Perhaps you’re
afraid to introduce yourself to women you find attractive or to ask
them out on a date. Perhaps you consistently fall into boring
conversation topics because they’re “safe” and shallow and you
don’t have to risk offending or inciting anyone with them. Perhaps
you don’t assert yourself and your desires enough. Perhaps you hide
from your own sexuality and become scared or nervous when people
expose theirs. Perhaps you’re stuck in a job or lifestyle you don’t
truly enjoy because other people always told you that it was a good
idea and you didn’t want to upset or disappoint the people around
you. Dressing extremely well makes you feel uncomfortable, smiling
at strangers makes you feel creepy, and the idea of hitting on a
woman openly scares you because of the possibility of
rejection.
All of these are symptoms of a root problem:
an inability to be vulnerable.
Many men, like you, and like me, were raised
in such a way as to not express our emotions freely. For whatever
reason — maybe our home situation, maybe childhood trauma, maybe
our parents didn’t express their emotions either — we’ve grown up
with deeply embedded habits designed to keep us stifled and bottled
up. Don’t be controversial. Don’t be unique. Don’t do anything
“crazy” or “stupid” or “selfish.”
I was the same way. For my entire young life,
I was terrified of anyone not liking me. The mere thought of
someone hating me, girl or guy, would literally keep me up at
night. As a result, every aspect of my life revolved around
people-pleasing, hiding my faults, covering my tracks, and blaming
others. And needless to say, I barely had any success with women.
And when I did finally get a girlfriend, she left my ass for a man
who could actually express himself.
This all may sound hokey and new-agey. Trust
me, it’s not. Connecting with women in this way, by being
vulnerable — as opposed to performance or narcissism — will result
in some of the best interactions and relationships of your
life.
Vulnerability is the path of true human
connection and becoming a truly attractive person. As psychologist
Robert Glover once said, “Humans are attracted to each other’s
rough edges.”
Show your rough edges. Stop trying to be
perfect. Expose yourself and share yourself without inhibition.
Take the rejections and lumps and move on because you’re a bigger
and stronger man. And when you find a woman who loves who you are
(and you will), revel in her affection.
But opening yourself up to vulnerability,
training yourself to become comfortable with your emotions, with
your faults, and with expressing yourself without inhibitions
doesn’t happen overnight. This entire book can be viewed as a
how-to guide for vulnerability. But it’s a process, and at times, a
grueling one.
The Pain Period
When undertaking any emotional shift or
change in behavior, there’s going to be an initial “pain period.”
The pain period typically happens in the beginning of the change
and forming a new habit. It’s the period of greatest resistance and
discomfort and the period in which most people give up.
Whether it’s bodybuilding, learning a new
language or starting a new job, there’s going to be an awkward and
difficult period where you’re going to struggle, fail at times, and
most of all, feel vulnerable.
Most people absolutely hate this feeling and
avoid it as much as possible. Being vulnerable hurts. It’s
embarrassing. It’s difficult. And as a result, these people don’t
learn new things or improve the old ones. That first time you
approach a woman at a party or offer your number, chances are
you’re going to be freaking out. And if she doesn’t react well,
it’s going to be quite painful. And that’s all right. That first
time you pick up the phone to call a girl you like. The first time
you go in for the kiss. These are nerve-wracking moments that are
not very pleasant to go through.
It’s especially difficult if you’ve already
had success in the past through performance or narcissism.
Practicing vulnerability often means that you will have to “get
worse before you get better.”
And chances are, the more you’ve bottled up
your emotions throughout your life, the more painful these actions
are going to be. As vulnerability researcher Brene Brown says, “The
less you talk about your shame, the more of it you have.”
This book presents myriad ways in which to
become more vulnerable: how to express yourself better through
dress, through conversation, through humor, through your
sexuality.
And I can tell you right now, you’re going to
feel uncomfortable. You’re going to come up with rationalizations
about how you don’t really have to do that, do you? How I
don’t know what I’m talking about. How you’re too busy or you will
get to it later. You’ll plan ahead, procrastinate and then re-plan
and then procrastinate again, and then decide you need to read this
book a couple more times — all because you’re scared to death of
simply being vulnerable.
Maybe you’ve already been through this. Maybe
you’ve already spent months or years avoiding taking action because
you’re afraid of the consequences. Maybe you’ve put off that career
change, that wardrobe upgrade, joining that dating site. Maybe
you’ve missed opportunities with women who liked you because you
were too afraid to make a move. Maybe you convinced yourself that
you needed to “know how” first. Maybe you convinced yourself that
you needed to see someone else do it first.
These are all forms of avoidance. And they
all come from a deep-seated neediness, and that neediness can only
be cured through making yourself more vulnerable. And at first,
that vulnerability is going to hurt.
You can’t skip it. The only way out of it is
through it.
I’ll give you two examples from my own pain
period when I was first learning to open myself up and become
vulnerable. Two girls, let’s call them Melina and Kate. Melina may
have been the first girl I dated after my disastrous break up in
2005. She and I had great natural chemistry and would sit around
and talk for hours. But little did I realize how angry I was and
how much baggage I was carrying around from my ex.
So one night, talking with Melina, I just
went off — for like 15 minutes straight, about my stupid whore of
an ex, and went into minute detail about all the fucked up stuff
she did, just on and on and on and on. So bitter and hurt. So
unnecessary.
I finished. I hadn’t even realized how long I
had gone on rambling. Then after an awkward silence, Melina looked
at me as if scared by something and calmly said, “I probably didn’t
need to know all of that.”
Ouch.
She and I quickly fell apart and stopped
seeing each other. I was mortified. I ran into her a number of
times after that for months and I would always feel nauseous with
embarrassment.
But as awful as this experience was, it was
important. It was the first time I had opened up about my feelings
about my relationship. And I noticed that in the future I became
much more comfortable talking about it. And once I was comfortable
talking about it, I began to notice things I had done wrong in that
relationship, ways that I could be a better man and a better
partner. But for me to get there, I had to be willing to take that
first awkward, vulnerable step.
Then there was Kate. Kate was slightly older
than me and extremely sexual. Our “first date” was her calling me
on the phone and flat out saying, “I want you to come to my
apartment and fuck me on my kitchen counter.”
“Uhh… OK, sounds good.” I played it cool. I
was terrified in my head, though. Girls really do this stuff? What
does this mean? She barely even knows me.
So I get over there. I’m freaking out, all up
in my head, and I can’t even keep it up long enough to get it in
her. Once again, completely mortified. This had happened with other
girls before, but I had always been drunk so I had an excuse. It
was the alcohol, not my own twisted, fucked up head.
But no excuse this time. As Kate sat there
naked on her kitchen counter, both expectant and horribly
disappointed, I became cornered. I had to own up to my own fears. I
wasn’t such a badass playboy, nor some smooth motherfucker. No, I
was a nervous dude with a lot of sexual insecurities and emotional
baggage. So I owned up to it. I told her that I was inexperienced
and was just coming out of a major dry spell and that I was really
nervous. I could see her attraction for me spiral away.
Fortunately, Kate was much cooler with my
insecurities than Melina was. She said she understood, to relax,
take my time, let her know or whatever. And then I did the super,
lame beta thing that every pick up book told me to never, ever,
ever do: I asked her if we could get to know each other better
first.
Again, it went against everything a “real
man” was supposed to do. But it was vulnerable and it was true.
And we did. And then we had sex later, once I
had calmed down and was comfortable. She was supportive and didn’t
hold it against me. And we went on to date for months and have wild
and crazy sex on all sorts of furniture around the house. It was
amazing. I just needed that time to open up and relax. I dated her
on and off for almost a year. The sex was great. And she was a
great friend.
Obviously, your issues and neediness are
going to be different. My point in all of this, though, is that
early on, when the neediness and vulnerability come out, it's
awful. It’s not sexy. In fact, it’s usually incredibly unattractive
and uncomfortable.
But that’s part of the process. The Pain
Period. Slowly, you become comfortable with it. You become
unattached to it. And then you become OK with it. The things I just
wrote above embarrassed me to the point that I wanted to die when
they happened. Now I can talk about them without shame or regret.
And these are the types of stories that I’ll often share with new
women when I date them, told in a similar fashion.
“I was embarrassed. Yes, it sucked. Yes, I
have issues. No, I’m not perfect.” The implication being the whole
time that I’m fine with it. I’m not looking for sympathy or
validation. I don’t need anything from her. It’s just who I am,
rough edges and all.
We all have weaknesses, embarrassments, and
vulnerabilities. A needy man is terrified to show them because he
cares more about what others feel about him than what he feels
about himself. A non-needy man is comfortable showing his flaws
because he’s more comfortable with how he feels about himself than
how others feel about him.
Sharing yourself openly with others forces
that transition between the two: from needy and afraid of what
others think, to non-needy and comfortable in how you feel about
yourself. The reason is because sharing these truths about yourself
forces you to own them and accept them, and also demonstrates that
feeling embarrassed or ashamed is just that, just another feeling,
another part of your humanity, not the end of the world.
The real question is, do you have to work
through this emotional baggage and neediness with the women you’re
dating? Not necessarily. You can work through them by sharing them
with friends, family members, or a therapist. But there are some
issues that can only be dealt with by women you’re seeing:
particularly intimacy and sexual issues.
But slowly, you will chisel away at yourself.
You’ll humble yourself, expose yourself, and then learn that it’s
OK. It’s OK to be rejected. It’s OK to make mistakes. It’s OK to
say something stupid. Don’t give up. Women will not dislike you for
your rejections and mistakes or saying something stupid.
They’ll like you for your ability to be OK
with being rejected, to make mistakes, and to say something stupid.
The man who always has the perfect line to say to her is a man she
will not trust because he shows no vulnerability and his words are
inauthentic and, therefore, needy.
The man who has some good lines and some bad
lines and is able to admit the latter and laugh at the former, this
is a man she will trust and a man she will open herself up to, both
emotionally and physically. Become comfortable with being
imperfect. It’s your rough edges she’ll be attracted to.
This isn’t pretty at first. The worst part of
the pain period is the fact that most people who have been stifling
their emotions their entire lives have a lot of pent-up anger,
frustration, and shame. Typically, the older you are, the more you
have pent up. And when you start to express this anger and shame,
the uglier it gets.
You may find yourself behaving irrationally,
developing strange beliefs, or becoming angry with many people. In
many cases, this is why I encourage men who struggle deeply with
vulnerability to see a therapist who can perhaps guide them through
this process.
You may be reading this and thinking, “Well,
that’s all fine, but I already express myself really well and am
pretty aware of my emotions.”
Really?
See, I don’t buy it. In all of my years doing
this, the single common thread between every man I’ve worked with
who has problems with women is either a lack of awareness of his
own emotional motivators or an inability to express his emotions
freely with those around him. And the sad part is, almost all of
these men think they’re fine. We always think that we’re the ones
who are fine. It’s everyone else who is screwed up.
But I’ll say this: if you consistently find
it difficult to keep a woman interested in conversation; if you
suffer from large amounts of anxiety around women; if you
constantly feel a need to prove something to others or yourself,
then there’s something there. Trust me, there’s something there.
And there’s something you’re not expressing or some emotion you’re
not in touch with. And that’s fine. We all go through it.
Ultimately, what women want — what we all
really want — is a strong, independent, non-needy partner who
fulfills us, who we can share ourselves with and receive them in
return.
Because sharing yourself with someone doesn’t
mean just physically occupying the same area. It doesn’t mean
exchanging facts with one another. It means opening up about your
values, desires, feelings, and dreams. It means exposing your shame
and insecurities and doubts and fears. It means living with
somebody on an emotional plane, inhabiting that same heart-space
together because that’s the one thing we can’t ever achieve by
ourselves.
But there’s a catch. Many men, when they
finish this chapter or hear this whole vulnerability spiel, their
first reaction is to say, “Oh, OK, so I’ll tell her all of these
sob stories and she’ll want to have sex. Got it.”
No. Wrong. It’s not about words or behaviors,
it’s about intentions. So if you’re going around telling sob
stories and talking about insecurities to get laid, women will
sense that and you will be a creep. That is not vulnerability; that
is merely another form of performance. And all performance is
neediness.
Similarly, if you go around saying and doing
whatever you want around women in the name of “expressing
yourself,” this, too, will not “work” because your intention is not
to connect with her and get to know her, but rather simple
self-gratification. This is not vulnerability, this is narcissism.
And all narcissism comes from neediness.
Stop looking at communication as the surface
information and instead, pay attention to the emotions and
motivations behind everything that you do and say. That's where all
of the meaning is.
I’ll say this again because this often gets
lost: vulnerability is not a technique or tactic. It is a way of
being. It’s not something you learn, it’s a mindset you
practice.
Sometimes I get emails from men saying
something like, “Hey, I told this girl all about my dog dying and
how I hate my mom. She didn’t have sex with me. Vulnerability
doesn’t work.”
And when I get these emails, I shake my head.
He doesn’t get it. “Doesn’t work,” he says.
Here’s a piece of advice: if you ever find
yourself thinking, “That didn’t work,” or “This doesn’t work,” then
you are performing and you are needy. Point blank. Period.
The whole idea of something “working” on
women, is itself a form of neediness. Because a sexual connection
is not something you achieve. It’s not a level in a video game that
you beat. It’s not something you can strategize. It’s either there
or it’s not.
When women emotionally connect with you and
your desire for them, it’s not what you’re saying or the words
you’re choosing, it’s the emotion behind those words. If the
emotion behind your words is needy and self-serving, then she will
become turned off no matter what you say, even if you’re telling
her the most personal or heartfelt story. If the emotion behind
your words is genuine and vulnerable, then it will turn her on,
even if you’re talking about your grocery list or how you named
your dog. Yes, you can fake this stuff in the short-term if you
become a good actor. But obviously, don’t do that. We’re not in
this for short-term fixes, remember?
So the catch is that your statements must be
authentic. Your statements towards women must be unconditional,
otherwise it’s not really being vulnerable. If you tell a woman
that she’s beautiful only because you think it’ll give you a better
chance of sleeping with her, then amazingly, she will not be very
flattered. Try it. It’s true. Give women false compliments and see
how they respond. They won’t respond very well.
But communicate with honest appreciation and
you’ll be amazed how she lights up in front of you.
So the catch is that everything you say must
be as authentic as possible. There’s no shortcut. There are no
tricks. You say it because you mean it and mean it because you say
it. The more nervous it makes you, the better, because it means
you’re being authentic and making yourself vulnerable.
How attractive you are is based on your lack
of neediness. Your non-neediness is based on how vulnerable you’re
able to make yourself. And how vulnerable you’re able to make
yourself is based on how honest you are to yourself and others.
Which brings us to our next chapter: the gift
of truth.