Lifestyle and Presentation


As men, we’re prone to assume that
women perceive attraction in the same way we do. Science and
psychology show that this isn’t the case.
Men judge female beauty by physical traits
first, personality and presentation second: high cheekbones, facial
symmetry, waist-to-hip ratio, breast size, etc. As such, we often
fall into the mistake that women judge our attractiveness with the
same metrics; hence, obsessions with bench presses, height, and
penis pills.
Yes, physical measurements play a role in how
a man’s appearance is judged, but research shows that other factors
are more important.
That’s why I draw the distinction between
being good-looking and being attractive. Not everybody is born
good-looking. But any man, with some time and effort, can become
attractive. And in the end, what women want is a man who is
attractive.
For some reason, many men believe that their
physical appearance is set in stone and they rarely have any
interest in altering it or making any major changes. What they
don’t understand is that the same man can present himself in
varying ways, some of which are far more attractive than
others.
Here are a couple unfortunate truths. The
first is that appearance is extremely important. The difference
between being perceived as stylish and unstylish is night and day.
Yes, you can still be dressed like a bum and get girls, but the
difference in the effort-to-reward ratio is massive. A makeover and
wardrobe change can make meeting and dating women three times
easier literally overnight. Not to mention all of the psychological
side benefits of making you feel more confident, more interesting,
more excited, etc.
Remember, your outward appearance is a
reflection of your self-investment (or lack thereof). And your
level of self-investment will make you less needy towards others,
therefore making your behavior more attractive. If you don’t put a
lot of time and effort into how you look and how you present
yourself to the world, women look at that and make unconscious
assumptions about your status as a man.
The first and obvious step involves grooming
and general maintenance. That means regular showering, shaving and
haircuts, wearing deodorant, brushing and flossing your teeth,
keeping clean fingernails, and wearing clean clothes.
I should not have to be telling you this
stuff, but just in case I do, there it is. The above paragraph is
non-negotiable, starting today.
There, now let’s move on to the two biggest
factors on your appearance, the two F’s: Fashion and Fitness.
If these two F’s don’t excite you or if your
immediate thought is, “Oh, I’ll skip this and go straight to the
pick up lines,” then I hate to break it to you, but things aren’t
going to get any easier. People are always talking about what the
“magic pill” to attraction is. If there was such a thing it would
be the two F’s. Bar none, fitness and fashion will do more to
attract women in a shorter amount of time than anything else you
can do. Being in decent shape and dressing well will make
every phase of the process easier and smoother, from meeting
women, to attracting them, to getting physical with them, to dating
them, to staying in a relationship with them. There literally is no
downside to either one.
So listen up and make a serious commitment to
yourself, because if you don’t make a commitment to yourself then
nobody else will.
Fashion and Fitness
Many straight guys are averse to exploring
their style and how they dress because they think it’s “gay” or
intrudes on their masculinity. It makes most men feel
uncomfortable. A lot of men feel set in their ways and don’t like
the idea of changing the type of shirts they wear, or the haircut
they’ve sported for years and years. They're also intimidated at
the idea of standing out or looking too different from the people
they hang around.
If this describes you, then it is going to be
a mental hurdle that you’ll have to overcome. Recognize that unless
you’ve spent a large amount of time focusing on fashion and style
already, chances are what you think looks good right now is not
accurate at all. You may think you dress well — hell,
everyone assumes they dress well before they know better —
but really it’s likely that you don’t.
So the first step is recognizing what you
don’t know.
There are a few rules to dressing well:
1. Wear clothes that fit.
2. Wear clothes that match.
3. Dress to your personality
We’ll go through and break each one down, one
by one:
Clothes that fit: To
start, the vast majority of men don’t wear clothes that fit them
properly. Men often prefer comfort and practicality to any
aesthetic purpose of wearing clothing, so most of their clothing is
too big. Chances are most of your clothing right now is too big.
Many men are also self-conscious about their body, so they buy
large clothing to mask it.
When it comes to clothing, fit is king. You
can have the nicest, most expensive clothes in the world, but if
they don’t fit well you’ll look like a clown. On the other hand,
you can have some modest or even mediocre clothing, but if it fits
well (and you’re in decent shape), you’ll look quite good.
Fit makes a massive difference and the change
is immediately apparent:


The first step to overhauling your wardrobe
should be to go through your closet and pull out anything and
everything that does not fit well.
You should always know your measurements. If
you’re not quite sure, ask to get measured. Most clothing
department stores have a tailor who will gladly take your
measurements for you.
With shirts, the shoulder seam should extend
to the end of the shoulder, not any further. If it extends past the
end of your shoulder, then the shirt is too big.
On dress shirts, the cuffs should not extend
past the wrist bone.
The bottom of your pants or jeans should rest
gently on the top of your shoes (unless you have a specific style
of rocker or hip hop jeans). There should not be more than one
“break” in your jeans — a break is a natural fold from them resting
on the top of your shoe.
If you’re stepping on the back of your pants
with the heel of your shoe, they’re too long. If your jeans are
raising up to expose your socks when you walk, they’re too
short.
Your pants should never sag from your waist
when you wear them, even when leaning or bending over. Plumber’s
cracks are never attractive.
Jeans should also never slip off your waist
without a belt. Most men wear jeans that are too large for them and
feel awkward when they first put on a proper-fitting pair of jeans.
They feel tight and uncomfortable at first. But this is normal.
You’ll get used to them in time.

Here’s an example of jeans that don’t
fit:

And an example of jeans and T-shirt that fit
well:

A blazer that’s too big; notice the shoulder
seams sagging off the sides:

And another outfit that fits very well:

Matching: Men have an
unbelievable knack for being oblivious to colors and how to
coordinate them.
Matching is actually simple once you know
what to look for:
- Your belt should match your shoes and/or your
accessories.
- If you’re wearing dress pants, your socks should
match your pants.
- If you’re wearing jeans, your socks should match
your shoes.
- Your accessories must all be gold or all
silver.
Here’s an easy way to get started. Go out and
buy a “black set” and a “brown set.” Buy a nice pair of black
shoes, a nice black belt, and a black jacket. Then buy a nice pair
of brown shoes, a brown belt, and a brown jacket.
Then buy a few pairs of nice designer jeans
with lighter and darker washes and a dozen or so shirts.
Then, it’s just mix-and-match.
You pick a pair of jeans, a nice shirt, and
then throw on your “brown set” or your “black set”— whichever set
compliments the shirt and jeans the best. I like to wear the brown
set with lighter shirts and jeans, and the black set with darker
shirts and jeans.
Of course, dressing gets more complicated
than this, but this is an easy and fail-safe way to start out.
 
Dress to your
personality: Many men learn about fashion and then decide to
buy some ridiculous stuff that does not suit their lifestyle at
all: a 40-year-old business executive with baggy jeans and a
hoodie, a 20-year-old college student with a $500 suit and sweater
vest, or just all kinds of random stuff — LED light belts, gold
clock necklaces, top hats, etc. It’s amazing sometimes what people
think is being stylish when it’s really being outlandish.
You are not stylish if you are not dressing
to your personality.
There are various fashion-based stereotypes
considered attractive by women that you can model your own style
after: the skater/surfer look, the successful businessman look, the
rock star look, the athletic look, etc.
For instance, if dressing like a rock
musician fits your personality, then do it. If you’re a top
accounting executive, you should dress like a stylish and
successful businessman. If you love hip-hop and DJ, then you should
dress more along those lines.
Look through magazines and get on the
internet. Find famous people or role models who represent your
personality. Then model yourself after those people’s
appearance.
Finally, if you’re struggling to get a
jump-start on fashion, you can get a fashionable female friend to
take you shopping.
Good female friends are good assets if you’re
clueless about shopping, sizes, and what looks good on you. They
can educate you and give you an unbiased female opinion on what
looks hot on you and what doesn’t.
But be warned, just because they have a
vagina doesn’t make them a de facto expert. Many women
aren’t as knowledgeable about fashion as they seem. Also, many
women will try to dress you to their idea of a hot guy, not
necessarily what works best for you.
Fitness: I’m not
going to get into the nitty-gritty of fitness in this book because
there are so many resources out there already. But I’ll make a few
basic points.
1. Exercise, no matter what. This is not negotiable.
Beyond simply making you look better naked, exercise boosts your
energy, raises testosterone, relieves symptoms of depression and
anxiety, and generally makes you feel better about yourself.
The exact way that you exercise isn’t as important
as the fact that you do it. If you like to play soccer, then find
people to play soccer with. If you like to do calisthenics and
yoga, then pursue that. If you want to hit the weight room and get
big, go for that.
2. Clean up your diet. An easy starting point that
will give you 80% of the results for 20% of the effort is simply
cutting out the following things: sodas, fast food, desserts, and
candy. If you just cut those things out of your diet, you’ll see a
drastic improvement.
There’s a lot of info out there on low-carb,
high-carb, high-protein, low-fat, and so on and so on. Nutrition
information is a sea that you can easily drown yourself in.
But if you start with the most fundamental basics
and cut the above things out of your diet (and start exercising
regularly), it’s impossible to not see major benefits within a few
months.
And again, similar to exercise, nutrition goes
beyond making you look sexy. It makes you feel better, gives you
higher energy, makes your sex better, increases your moods, and can
even save you a lot of money.
Body Language
Body language is something that can also be
fixed in a relatively short amount of time and can immediately make
you appear more attractive.
Some studies claim that body language
accounts for as much of 60% of all communication that occurs
between two people. That’s a lot.
Considering all of the discussion we’ve had
about neediness, intention, and sub-communication in the beginning
of the book, the importance of body language shouldn’t surprise
you.
Major body language problems can be addressed
consciously and with practice. But your body language will continue
to improve as a side effect of becoming less needy and getting
plenty of exercise.
To analyze your posture in this section, you
will need the help of a mirror (preferably full-body).
1. Start by facing the mirror and then turn 90
degrees to the right or left. You should have a perfect “side view”
of yourself. Now look at the “ridge” that extends from your neck to
the end of your shoulder. If you’re wearing a shirt, look at the
seam that extends from your neck to your sleeve. That seam or ridge
on almost everyone will be slanted forward. Move your shoulders
back until that ridge or seam is straight — going straight from
your neck to your shoulder. That’s the optimal position for your
shoulders. Remember that position and remind yourself to hold your
shoulders there as often as possible.
2. Next, turn and look directly into the mirror,
with your shoulders back, raise your chin up until it’s at a
90-degree angle with your neck. Your eyes should be looking
dead-ahead now, straight into themselves in the mirror, or aiming
straight at the horizon as if you were walking. Make the back of
your neck as straight as possible with your back. Notice when you
pull your head up like this with your shoulders back, your stomach
naturally comes in, and your back naturally straightens up. This is
what we want!
3. Next, look at your feet. They should be
shoulder-width apart. Take note of which way your feet are
pointing. They should be pointed straight ahead or slightly outward
at the most. If they’re pointed inward or very far outward, this
will cause posture problems and make you walk funny. Turn them
straight ahead or at a slight outward angle and hold them there. If
they continue to point in or out (especially when you sit down), it
means that your calf muscles are too tight, and you need to stretch
them or roll them with a foam roller.
4. Now, it’s time to walk. Hold the position you’re
in — shoulders back, head up, back straight, stomach in, feet
straight — and then slowly step in front of you. As you walk, you
want to swing your shoulders. Not too far, because that’ll make you
look ridiculous, but move your shoulders as you walk. This will
create swagger and make you look more relaxed as you walk. It will
probably feel weird looking straight up and ahead while you’re
walking, but this is good. You want to be able to look everybody in
the eye as you walk by them.
5. Finally, swing your arms slightly. If you don’t
swing them, you look robotic. If you have them in your pockets,
you’re either cold or a pussy. If you swing them too far, you look
ridiculous. Just give them a slight swing… to go along with your
swagger. There.
Practice this a few times until you can
remember how it feels. Take note of the feeling and then force
yourself to go back to this position as much as possible.
Go step-by-step if you must. As you walk down
the street, remember: shoulders back, chin up, eyes straight, feet
straight, shoulders swagger, arms swing. Always look straight
ahead. Don’t ever look down at the ground unless you think you’re
about to trip. Look people in the eye as they walk by —
particularly attractive girls. You’ll catch people making eye
contact with you. You’ll feel the urge to look away. Don’t. Always
make other people break eye contact with you before you break it
with them.
Do it until it becomes a habit.
Challenge yourself to go out for a week
straight and do this every time you’re in public. Notice any
changes in how you feel. Notice any shifts in people’s reactions to
you. Notice any shifts in your confidence.
Vocal Tonality
Vocal tonality is definitely overlooked by
men. It’s not just having a sexy voice that’s important; it’s
having an expressive and a loud voice.
We actually have two “voices”: a “head” voice
and a “chest” voice. Basically, when you sing, your head voice does
the high notes and the chest voice does the low ones. Your head
voice breathes out largely through your nose while your chest voice
through your mouth. The head voice comes from the throat and the
chest voice from the diaphragm.
Try this exercise. Hum a note, then slowly
raise it and then slowly lower it. It should sound like a siren, up
high, down low, up high, down low. As you do this, pay attention to
where the air pressure in your body is. As you shift from high to
low, it goes from your head to your chest, and then back up
again.
As you could guess, we want to develop that
chest voice. Again, the only way to do this is through conscious
practice — reminding yourself countless times to speak from your
chest voice until it becomes a habit.
Here’s a cool exercise that you can do. Read
the following sentence aloud:
“Do you want to get a drink Thursday
night?”
Now, hold your nose and read it again. How
different is your tonality? If it’s not very different, you already
speak largely from your chest and probably have good tonality. If
you suddenly sound very nasal when you hold your nose and say it,
you need to work on speaking with a deeper voice.
Keep practicing it until you can say it while
holding your nose and it doesn’t sound any different.
Another problem men have is they often talk
too quickly. This comes from a subconscious belief that if we don’t
get everything out quickly, people won’t listen to everything we
have to say. This is a needy behavior.
There’s not a definitive metric for this. But
pay attention to whether people seem to have trouble hearing you
often. Experiment with slowing down how you speak and notice any
differences in how it feels or reactions you get. If people are
constantly asking you to repeat yourself, and it’s not loud in the
room, you may speak too quickly.
Also, chances are you are not loud enough. In
fact, just about everyone does not speak loud enough. Speak louder.
Do it now, do it everywhere. Don’t scream. But speak loudly, from
the diaphragm, from your chest voice. Research shows it commands
more respect and attention.
Like body language, these adjustments will
take time and practice to implement.
Not only do better body language and vocal
projection engage other people more effectively, but good body
language has also been shown to affect your moods positively. Yes,
even shifting your body into a more confident position consciously
will make you feel more confident and vice-versa. Even if you do it
on purpose and know what you’re doing, it will still work. So start
paying attention to your body, how you present yourself, how you
sit, how you stand, and the amount of eye contact you’re making. It
makes a difference. And it adds up quickly.
Developing Character
One thing that consistently holds men back is
that they come across as just another typical dude or bro. Dime a
dozen. We’re pressured most of our lives to go with the flow, go
along with what our friends like and just agree with what those
around us think.
As we’ve discussed, this is unattractive
behavior because it demonstrates a lack of investment in your own
interests, passions, and desires. Attractive men are polarizing and
uninhibited. Attractive men make their opinions known. They’ve had
unique experiences and ideas. They’ve tried things many people
haven’t tried, done things many people haven’t done, and share
their ideas openly and freely.
Put another way, an attractive man with depth
and character is a man who has opinions and openly expresses those
opinions.
When it comes to deciding what one likes and
doesn’t like, most men have very lukewarm reactions one way or the
other.
“Yeah, that movie’s awesome,” or “Yeah, I
like that one,” or “No, I don’t like that show.” It rarely goes
beyond that. There’s no sharing of why one prefers one type
of music over another, one movie over another, one author over
another. And there’s no connection to the emotions driving
that preference.
For instance, a random Joe may say, “I really
liked Terminator. It was pretty cool.”
A more interesting person may say,
“Terminator was great. But what’s more interesting to me is
that it was the first movie I can remember in which you ended up
rooting for the villain.”
There’s nothing wrong with being amiable and
enjoying similar things to your friends. But one thing that will
always make you stand out, particularly to women, is if you’ve not
only expanded your horizons, but you’ve also made your own
decisions about your personal tastes, your experiences, and what
you think about various topics.
Let’s be real, out of 10 men the typical
single woman meets, 9 of them are into the following things:
sports, comedy movies, rock and/or hip-hop music, and other generic
guy activities. Again, nothing wrong with this, but what’s going to
make you stick out?
We want to shape you into a man with taste, a
man with opinions, and a man who can explain exactly why he likes
or dislikes everything from 70s Motown records to German films to
19th-century literature to impressionistic art. Don’t
get me wrong, I’m not about to tell you to go take a bunch of art
classes or whatever. You don’t need to be a super-intellectual
snob. This is about developing your own opinions and enriching your
life.
Too many men let their opinions be dictated
by pop culture and their group of guy friends.
“Oh dude, Will Farrell is soooo funny.”
“The new Batman movie is awesome.”
Few men ever stop and actually think
critically about why they like certain things, why
certain forms of pop culture are popular and others are not. Few
have the curiosity to look into new art forms or hobbies and figure
out how they feel about them.
Here are some concepts to keep in mind as you
go through your life experiencing art and media:
1. Assume everything has a form of value;
it’s your job to find it.
Nothing is stupider than to be prejudiced
against a genre of music or type of movie for no other reason than
because of some stereotype or preconceived notion about it.
Drop all of this prejudice and adopt this
mentality immediately: “there has to be something to this
form of art, otherwise it wouldn’t have a following, so I should
find out what that something is.” Once you find it, then
decide if you like it or not. Whether you like something or not,
you should always be able to appreciate it.
2. When expanding your horizons; start with
what’s generally considered the best.


Some forms of art will come easily and
naturally to you. It takes me literally two seconds to identify
rock music that is transcendentally good, or painfully bad. I’ve
been listening to it all my life. Country? Classical? Bluegrass?
That takes some more time.
Do the same with movies. Watch every movie in
IMDB’s list of top 20 movies of all time. Google critics’ top 10
movies of all time lists and watch everything on there. Watch every
movie that’s ever won an Oscar for “Best Picture.” That’s a good
start.
Now, you may be saying to yourself: “This is
all nice, but reading Hemingway or developing opinions on Chaucer
or Bach will never get me laid.”
Well, touché. Although, I’ll make the
following points:
1. Being a well-rounded individual with opinions
will expand your demographics by quite a bit. So yes, none of this
is necessary if you want to date a woman who has no interesting
opinions herself. But if you want to date brilliant, vivacious
women with artistic sensibility, passion and class, then a lot of
this is a prerequisite.
2. The second point I’ll make is what my high school
literature teacher always told us: “You read literature because you
can never meet enough people.” What I take from this is yes, even
though reading Hemingway or Milton Friedman’s economic theories may
not directly get you laid, what it will do is develop your
perspective to be more varied, allow you to be able to relate to
more people’s experiences and ideas, and generally have a wider
body of knowledge for dealing with people in general.
Believe it or not, Hayek’s
economic arguments for libertarianism have influenced my
perspectives on dating and relationships for the better. I know
that may sound crazy, but it’s true.
Anyone who has read a lot can tell
you that the best ideas you take from a certain book often have
nothing to do with the book you read.
Many men have been caged into the
same day-to-day grind, wasting away, spending their life doing
things they don’t truly enjoy and that don’t truly express their
identity and personality.
- They go to work (often at a good job).
- They come home and unwind.
- They watch the typical sports/sitcoms/movies.
- On Fridays/Saturdays, they hang out with the same
3-4 friends.
Often I meet men who don’t even have this
much variability and balance in their lives. They’re stuck in
60-to-80-hour-per-week jobs, or they work two jobs, they have
absolute no hobbies outside their filling bank account.
Now, there’s nothing “wrong” with the above
list. It represents about 90% of the male population between the
ages of 20 and 40 in the western world.
But again, that’s the point: how are you
going to differentiate yourself from the other 90% of men out
there?


Ask yourself this: If you were lined up next
to 10 random, single men from your town, what would make you stand
out from them? Imagine a woman met all 10 of you in a row. What is
there about you that would stop her dead in her tracks and make her
say, "Wow, this man is unique?" What do you have that they don’t?
What can you offer that most other men can’t?
Do you secretly write poetry in your spare
time and hide it in your closet? Have you been skydiving three
times? Did you climb a glacier in the Alps once? Have you tried
eating things like snakes, worms, spiders? What have you done
that’s cool and interesting and has shaped you as a person?
What are your rough edges that people can’t
find anywhere else? What have you done that will make you stand out
in her mind?
Bringing It All Together
Developing an attractive lifestyle is a
long-term process. It requires a consistent and penetrating look at
your actions, your habits and what you’ve chosen to do with most of
your time.
Your job, your hobbies, your friends, your
interests, are these things mostly a result of what was told to you
or pushed on you, or are they things that you consciously evaluated
and chose based on how enriching and passionate they made you
feel?
These are important questions. No one can
live your life but you. And as long as you sleepwalk through life
not ever questioning or evaluating the lifestyle you’ve built for
yourself, the same behavioral patterns are likely to creep up over
and over again.
Men often don’t totally believe me, but poor
lifestyle choices afflict all of your interactions and
communication when it comes to women. Poor lifestyle choices
reflect a lack of investment in yourself, which in turn causes you
to be less confident around others for validation.
I first noticed this when I worked with men
who still lived at home with their parents. A lot of these men were
great guys. They were smart, funny, caring, had interesting
hobbies. Some even had a good job, but they stayed with their
parents for other reasons (health, etc.)
Yet they got absolutely no results. Women
never responded warmly to them, and they never seemed quite as
motivated or as confident.
There’s a certain baseline level of
independence and self-sufficiency that your lifestyle must give you
for you to be able to move forward. If you’re constantly stressed
by work, upset by your friends, and in poor health, then no amount
of work on your anxieties and communication is going to help much.
You’re effectively putting a ceiling on your development and your
potential with women. The other two parts of this book will not be
much use to you. You can try, but I can tell you, you probably
won’t see much change in your results.
Get your life taken care of. Get healthy.
Find a happy group of friends. Find a few hobbies that you love.
Develop opinions. Start caring about what you spend your time
doing. This increases your self-investment and will make you less
needy around others. This, in turn, will give you the courage to
take the correct action and the wherewithal to communicate
effectively. This is honest living.
And once you’re living a life true to
yourself, your values and your ideals, then it’s time to take
action.