Demographics


Before we get into what to say to
women, how to make them laugh, where to take them, how to kiss
them; before we even get into basic questions like what to wear, or
how to look, what to say first, we have to ask a more important
question. A question whose answer will affect and change everything
listed above.
Which women do you want to meet and what kind
of relationship do you want to have with them?
Context. Whether you chat a woman up in a
coffee shop, introduce yourself at a business networking event, or
attend a speed dating event is going to make a huge difference.
This question of where and in what context
you meet women is what I call demographics, and it is
by-and-large ignored by pretty much all dating advice out there
today. This absolutely boggles my mind since social interactions
are always contextual, and therefore, attracting women is always
contextual.
Some dating advice tells a 40-year-old
divorced banker meeting women at an art gallery the same advice
that they tell a 19-year-old college kid sneaking into house
parties. This is stupid. These two men have completely different
priorities, life experiences, personalities, and interests, and the
women they’re going to meet in those two locations are going to be
different in age, education, values, emotional development,
appearance, and interests. That some advice would give these men
the exact same lines or strategies to use just goes to show how
completely out of tune a lot of men’s dating advice is today.
The theory of demographics is simple and easy
to remember: like attracts like. You attract what you are.
If you’re a successful professional who likes
fine wine, studied abroad and dresses well, chances are the type of
women you’re going to naturally meet and attract in your everyday
life are going to be similarly educated, similar looking women with
similar interests and similar success.
When demographics don’t match up, then it
causes friction. And as we learned in Chapter 3, friction prevents
attraction from turning into intimacy and/or sex.
A common demographic mismatch scenario that
I’ve seen many times is the nerdy guy who decides to try and become
a player. Let’s say we have a 35-year-old engineer named John. John
has been a bookworm and shut-in all his life. He’s had two serious
girlfriends, both lasting more than five years each. He’s recently
single and has decided that he wants to date and meet as many women
as possible before he gets married. So John reads some pick up
artist book and begins hitting the nightclubs with the new
“techniques” he’s learned.
Now, let’s ignore the lines he uses for a
moment — in fact, let’s assume the lines he uses are good (even
though they’re probably not). He approaches a very hot blond girl
named Jenna.
Jenna is 20-years-old and in her second year
at community college. She comes from a worse part of town and has
been working a retail job at a shoe store for the last few years to
put herself through school. Jenna has no clue what she wants to do
with her life. In fact, she has trouble thinking about the future.
She’s gone into debt buying clothes and spends more time at parties
than studying or doing homework.
John has three degrees, has spent the last
eight years working 60 hours per week and never drinks. He’s maybe
been to 20 parties in his entire life and has only been drunk
twice. He’s passive and analytical and his sense of humor is highly
intellectual. He’s soft-spoken and thoughtful. He’s not dressed
entirely well and his hair is unkempt. He wears big glasses and is
slightly shorter than average.
It’s not hard to see that when he meets
Jenna, no matter what he says or what line he uses, it’s going to
end quickly, and chances are Jenna is not going to be subtle about
her lack of interest in John.
John may come away blaming the lines he used
for not working. Or he may blame himself for being ugly or being a
little short. But the fact of the matter is that it’s just a simple
incompatibility. John’s values don’t line up with Jenna’s. Jenna’s
lifestyle and interests don’t mesh with John’s. John is older but
less experienced. Jenna is younger but more experienced. John is
mature and practical. Jenna is immature and impulsive. There are
mismatches going on all over the place.
But let’s keep the thought experiment going.
Let’s say two years go by. In those two years, John works on
himself. He dresses impeccably now — wearing high-quality clothing
and designer brands that are not only stylish but reflect his
successful business persona. He’s well groomed. He’s gone to the
gym and buffed up, gotten contacts instead of glasses and paid a
stylist to fix up his hair.
John’s also discovered how to lighten up a
little bit and enjoy a party now and then. Occasionally, he goes
out with some of his new young professional friends to have drinks
and a little fun. He’s begun spending more time at the beach and
has been teaching himself the guitar on and off. His social
confidence has soared, and his lifestyle has expanded and
grown.
Jenna has also changed in the past two years.
Since she last met John, she’s dedicated herself to her studies.
She just got into nursing school and has been taking it seriously
and realizes she’s smarter than she thought she was and that, at
times, she actually enjoys learning. She also got out of a one-year
relationship with a football player who was irresponsible and
treated her like crap. She’s realized that she needs a man who is
more responsible than she is and that she needs to stand up for
herself and expect more out of the men she dates.
This time, when John approaches her (lines or
not), they suddenly have an overlapping demographic: John is now an
attractive, well-kept, successful bachelor who knows how to let
loose, have fun and express his emotions; Jenna is now not only
beautiful but also responsible, ambitious and confident.
And like that, there’s now mutual
attraction.
Now, it’s true that if John practiced and
perfected his use of lines and tactics, he may be able to convince
Jenna in the short-term that he’s less invested and is actually in
her demographic (vague stories about his stripper ex-girlfriends
and the like), but hopefully by now you realize how badly these
kinds of strategies backfire, particularly in the long run.
Eventually, John’s lines will run out and like Cinderella after the
ball, Jenna will be horrified at who she’s actually talking to.
But because John (and Jenna) worked on
themselves, broadened their demographics, enriched their
lifestyles, and lived their lives in ways that were more in line
with what they wanted, they came to find enough common ground to be
attracted to one another.
This is the power of demographics.
And notice it has little to do with the
people themselves — whether or not they’re attracted to each other
— but more to do with timing. Two years prior they were not
compatible. Two years later, they are. Remember, right person,
wrong time.
If she loves to ski and ride horses, and you
hate the outdoors and traveling, then that’s going to cause
friction — perhaps not immediately, but at some point.
If she values expressing her emotions openly
and what her friends think of her, and you value serious
conversation, intellectual pursuits and don’t care much for social
gatherings, there’s going to be a large amount of friction from the
get-go.
This is unavoidable. Clever lines won’t
change it. Being good-looking won’t change it. Being rich won’t
change it. If you hate what she loves and she hates what you love,
it’s not going to go anywhere. Period.
The answer isn’t replacing your identity and
passions; the answer is to expand your identity and passions.
Expand it to include new and interesting activities, new modes of
expression, and new ways of presenting yourself.
Demographics explain why you meet women you
just “click” with sometimes, and why, more often than not, you meet
these women in situations where you’re having fun and doing what
you love.
Lifestyle Choices
The theory of demographics has advantages as
well: if you play to your strengths — i.e., if you focus your time
and energy on meeting women in situations where they are likely to
share your values, interests, and needs — then you’re going to not
only experience a much higher degree of success, but you’re going
to meet women you enjoy a lot more.
For instance, I love to travel. And I love
meeting women who love to travel. It’s absolutely my favorite thing
to talk about and typically if I find a well-traveled woman, I find
it very easy to attract her and date her.
When I’m in a random bar in Texas, I rarely
meet women who have traveled. But when I go to a European wine
tasting in New York, I almost meet nothing but women who
love to travel.
Or even better, if I actually get up and go
to another country and meet other people traveling in that country,
I’m going to have an extremely high hit-rate with those women.
If you love dancing or different types of
music, then chances are the women you’re going to meet at various
dance events and concerts are going to be more compatible with you
and you’re going to have much more success with them.
Bars and nightclubs are generally considered
“meet markets” or the obvious places everyone goes to meet someone.
But think about the people and context in which you’re walking into
in a bar or nightclub: a high-energy, generic party situation,
where people value having fun and spending time with their
friends.
Assuming you’re a guy who loves to party,
have fun, and hang out with a bunch of new friends, that’s great.
But if you’re not that naturally outgoing social type, then chances
are you’re not going to be very compatible with most of the people
there.
It isn’t until you develop that aspect of
your personality or lifestyle that those women will begin to open
up to you.
What I recommend to every man before he even
begins talking to women is to sit down for a while and ask himself
a few questions:
 
- What do you value in a woman? Honesty? Beauty?
Affection? Intelligence? Curiosity? Similar interests? Education?
Obviously, the answer is “all of the above”, right? So let me
rephrase the question: what do you value the most? What is
an absolute deal-breaker in the women you date? Prioritize what you
look for in a woman. This will help you decide where to look.
- Women with the traits that you value, where do
they frequent? Where are you most likely to find them?
- What do you enjoy doing most? Do you love to
read/write? Do you play music? Do you enjoy sports and
competitions? What are the events or organizations that you can
become involved in that explore your hobbies?
- If you don’t know what your passions and interests
are, take a minute and write down things that you’ve always wanted
to do but have never had the time or never worked up the nerve to
do. Make a promise to yourself to get involved in that activity or
event in some way.
Obviously, not every interest is going to be
overflowing with women. If you are a competitive chess player, you
probably won’t meet many women at chess tournaments. But few people
have only one passion or interest. And chances are that you have at
least a few things that you’re interested in that are overflowing
with women.
Here are examples of some great
hobbies/events that you can use to meet women:
- Dance classes (salsa, swing, ballroom, etc.)
- Political organizations or events
- Concerts and concert promotions
- Amateur sports leagues (ultimate frisbee and co-ed
volleyball tend to have a lot of women — women in good shape
too)
- Volunteering, charities, charities events (usually
overloaded with great women)
- Training courses (leadership, public speaking)
- Cooking classes
- Yoga classes (a goldmine)
- Meditation courses and retreats
- Self-help seminars and educational events
- Travel groups (i.e., couch surfing)
- For the religious: a church or whatever your
faith’s equivalent is
- Educational classes (foreign language, CPA,
etc.)
- Dog parks
- Wine or beer tastings
- Art galleries, exhibits or showings
- Business networking events
Also, meetup.com and livingsocial.com are
excellent resources for finding like-minded people and cool events
going on in your city.
I have a friend who is an excellent dancer
and goes to the local dance events in the every week. He’s
successful, smart and professional. He’s cultured and
well-traveled. He also networks through European entrepreneurs
living and working in the US. Between these two groups, he meets
tons of people and tons of attractive, intelligent women. To kick
things off, he often brings them together by hosting events at his
house. His consistent success with women comes not just from his
charisma and his “game,” but the fact that he’s narrowed down the
demographic of women who he likes and who are apt to like him and
acts on it.
A much simpler example is another friend I
have who is a professional musician. You would think he’d be
getting laid all the time, but he actually spent most of his time
in the studio and rehearsal rooms. That’s where the real payday
was.
But when he became single again, he began
taking cheap and easy gigs, playing weddings, dive bars, in cover
bands, etc. and quickly met more women than he knew what to do
with.
In my own life, I have a strong passion for
traveling and culture. Wherever I go, I make a point to join local
events or classes where I’ll meet other like-minded people who also
travel. When I’m in the US, I spend my time at venues or events
that are likely to have foreigners.


Whenever I’m in the US and I meet a woman
from say, Argentina, and I immediately start telling her about the
three months I lived in Buenos Aires — in Spanish — it’s pretty
easy to get a date with her, as you can imagine.
The answer for you is going to be completely
different. You’ll have to experiment. These are just some
successful examples.
Demographics affect every interaction you
have with women. If there is too large of a demographic mismatch,
then the friction will be incredibly high, and no matter how
attractive you are, she will not be able to connect with you.
This may explain a fair amount of failure
you’ve had up until this point.
Expand your interests and pursue them.
If you’re interested in spirituality and
meditation, pursue it. If you’re interested in politics and being
active in your community, pursue it. If you’re interested in food
from around the world, pursue it. Take up cooking classes, food
tastings, restaurant openings, etc.
Beliefs and Self-Selection
Lifestyle choices play an obvious role in the
demographic of women we would like to meet. If you like to do yoga,
and if you go do yoga, you’ll meet other women who like to do yoga.
They’ll likely be attracted to you and you’ll likely be attracted
to them. Duh.
What’s not quite as obvious but just as
important, if not more important, is how our beliefs naturally
screen the women who come into our lives. When I say beliefs, I
mean beliefs about women, sex, relationships, and ourselves.
The idea is that our beliefs are reflected in
our behavior, and behavior determines which (and how many) women
are attracted to us.
For instance, if you believe all women are
sluts and untrustworthy, then the only women who are going to be
willing to tolerate your judgmental attitude are promiscuous women
who are untrustworthy. Social psychology refers to this as the
assortment effect and it's been demonstrated in many
studies.
Another example is the belief that women want
and enjoy sex as much as men do. This belief was a big one for me.
Many men don’t believe that women actually enjoy or fantasize about
sex.
So how would this belief affect your behavior
and screen the women who are attracted to you?
If you believe women don’t or shouldn’t enjoy
sex, then the women who do enjoy sex will most likely not feel
comfortable expressing their sexuality around you. And the women
who do not enjoy sex will feel like you understand them.
Thus, you’ll be stuck dating a bunch of women
disconnected from their sexuality and uncomfortable having sex with
you.
But if you believe that women do enjoy sex,
then the women who do enjoy sex will feel comfortable expressing
their sexuality around you, while the women who are not comfortable
expressing their sexuality will not be comfortable around you. Yes,
this will invite rejections, but remember, rejections are a form of
screening for demographics and in this case, it’s doing you a
favor.
You’ll end up with a bunch of sexual and
sensual women who enjoy being with you. Nothing wrong with
that!
The assortment effect through personal
beliefs is incredibly powerful. I think that most “problems” men
try to overcome with tactics and techniques could easily be solved
by simply questioning our beliefs.
I always like to tell men, “The only thing
all of the women you date have in common is you.” What I mean by
that is if all of the women you date end up lying and being
manipulative, or if all of the women you date are selfish and treat
you poorly, or if all of the women you date are meek and have no
personality, then likely there is something in your beliefs and
behavior that is naturally screening for those types of women.
A blunter way of putting it is: whether you
realize it or not, the results you get with women are always your
fault.
Unfortunately, questioning and re-evaluating
our beliefs about women and relationships is far harder and more
uncomfortable than simply memorizing a pick up line or two. That’s
why most men don’t ever bother doing it. And that’s why these men
never experience long-term success.
I think acknowledging your beliefs and also
being able to acknowledge that they may not be true comes back to
what was discussed in Chapter 3: being able to take an open and
honest look at yourself and your desires. Becoming a non-needy man
requires, first and foremost, a high level of honesty with
yourself. Part of that honesty with yourself involves observing and
challenging your own beliefs. If you have lived your entire life
believing women are untrustworthy or that women who express their
sexuality are immoral, then perhaps you should evaluate what kind
of women those beliefs are going to attract into your life. And if
you don’t want to attract those kinds of women, perhaps you should
experiment with changing your beliefs.
Now you’re probably saying: “Experiment with
changing my beliefs? How the hell do I do that?”
You change your beliefs by simply accepting
the fact that you don’t know what you’re talking about and then you
open yourself to coming to other conclusions. If you believe that
all women are evil and manipulative, consciously decide that you
may not know what you’re talking about, and then go out and test
new hypotheses out in the real world. Go to an event and pretend
that all of the women you meet are loving, caring, and honest. Get
online and message women imagining that every one of them is
interested in you for you and not for some ulterior motive. See
what happens. Sure, it will freak you out at first, but you’ll
quickly notice a shift in the caliber of women you attract and your
relationships will improve.
Because here’s the amazing thing about
people, both men and women: people tend to conform to what we
expect of them.
For instance, let’s say you get a new job and
your new boss immediately assumes you’re a dick. He talks down to
you, rolls his eyes at you, and acts as if your mere presence is an
insult to everything he stands for.
How would you end up behaving towards him?
That’s right, you’d start acting like a dick. He treats you badly
because he expects you to be a dick. And you start acting like a
dick because he’s treating you badly.
The same is true with women and dating. If
you meet and date women believing fucked up stuff about them, you
will only encourage that fucked up behavior. If you never trust the
woman you’re with and are always jealous, then you’re just going to
encourage her to do things behind your back. After all, she’s going
to get yelled at by you anyway, so she decides to start withholding
information.
If you’re condescending and treat a woman
like she’s a child who can’t make any decisions for herself, then
she will act like a spoiled child and stop making any decisions for
herself.
In the therapeutic world, this is often
referred to as “enabling:” when our shitty behavior encourages the
people around us to adopt shitty behavior.
Demographics, and more importantly, analyzing
our beliefs about relationships before we even start pursuing one,
allows us to avoid these problems before they even happen, to avoid
the disastrous breakups before they can ever occur.
Because ultimately, we attract who we are.
And if we are a mean, vindictive, jealous or distrustful person –
well, who do you think you’ll end up being with?
Age, Money, and Looks
The touchiest part of demographics — and
possibly the touchiest subject of all dating advice — is
that of age, money, and looks.
I want to get this out of the way and make it
100% clear. Age, money, and looks matter — in some cases a lot, in
other cases, not a lot, but they still matter. And anyone who tells
you that they don’t matter is lying.
With that said, age, money, and looks don’t
matter nearly as much as most men think. And if you’re aware of the
effects of demographics, you can work around them and even work
them to your advantage.
When it comes to age, studies show that men’s
physical attractiveness peaks at around 31 (a luxury considering
women peak around 21) and that our physical attractiveness recedes
far slower than it does for women. In fact, studies have found that
the average 45-year-old male is still considered as physically
attractive as the average 18-year-old male.
The main reason is that studies have also
found that women judge a man’s status far less on actual physical
dimensions and far more on style, grooming, and how men present
themselves. As men, we’re extremely lucky in this regard. Taking a
man from a baggy beer T-shirt and ill-fitted jeans to a nice suit
with a professional haircut will immediately bump him up 50% in the
looks department overnight, whereas with women, it’s a constant and
never-ending battle to maximize their physical appearance as much
as possible.
How to be as good-looking as possible will be
covered in depth in the following chapter, but for now, just know
that no matter how ugly you think you are (and chances are, you
aren’t), there’s hope for you. And we’ll take care of it soon
enough.
Money is nice in that it demonstrates success
and implies other positive attractive traits. But again, its
utility is vastly overblown. When it comes to money, once again the
surveys and studies have some interesting findings.
The first is that money/success matters more
depending on your age. The older you are, the more money you’re
expected to have and the more successful you’re expected to be in
order to be attractive. The other finding is that the less wealthy
she is, the more important money will be to her.
This is why the stereotypical gold-digger is
usually a very beautiful young woman who grew up in poverty. Women
who grow up with money or have money usually don’t care about it as
much.
But the fact remains that women perceive men
with money the same way we perceive women with good looks: as
social status. How each woman defines social status and whether
money is a part of that or not is going to vary from woman to
woman.
Which brings me to my primary point when it
comes to age, money, and looks. Again, it’s about the
demographics.
I saw a quote recently that said, “Only lazy
women are interested in men with money, because they don’t have
anything else going for them.”
Ask yourself for which demographic of women
are looks and money highly important? Women who tend to only
value good looks tend to be women who only have
good looks and little else to offer. Women who are highly
interested in money are going to be women who don’t have other
interests or opportunities in front of them.
What I’m saying is, women who only
care about things such as looks and money are usually going to be
women who you’re not going to be interested in or who are not going
to make you happy. So you’re not missing out on much.
With that said, everybody values looks and
success to a certain extent. So it’s not something we can write off
completely. You should be as good-looking as you can
possibly be. And you should be as financially successful as
you can possibly be. And even the most interesting and well-rounded
and psychologically healthy women are still going to prefer a
good-looking and successful man to one who isn’t. All things equal,
looks and money always increase your odds.
But I would just add the caveat that you
should be as good-looking as possible for you. You should be
as financially successful as possible for you. These are
just other avenues in which to invest in yourself.
So yes, looks and money matter. But the
question is, how do they affect our results with the majority of
women?
The more money/looks/success you have, the
less attractive behavior you need. The less money/looks/success you
have, the more attractive behavior you need.
Another way to think of this is that age,
money, and looks are universal demographics, and therefore, an
incompatibility in any one of them is apt to cause extra friction
everywhere.
But just because there’s friction, or just
because there are fewer Receptive women, it’s no excuse for not
having success in the long run.
The vast majority of men who get hung up on
looks and money get hung up on them because they’re using it as an
excuse. It’s absolutely not a valid excuse. A guy who is
good-looking or rich still has to work for his results; he just
doesn’t have to work as hard as the next guy.
Trust me, I’ve coached hundreds of men who
were far more professionally successful than me and far better
looking than me, yet I still dated more women and more beautiful
women than them. Being good-looking and being rich is worth nothing
if you don’t do something with it. You can be the richest
guy in the world, but if you behave like a timid, negative and weak
chump, then women will still be repelled.
And as we’ll discuss in the next chapter,
anyone can be handsome and appear high-status if they put enough
effort into it. So no excuses.
And of course, status is ultimately
determined by demographics. At a college house party, a burly
20-year-old kid who crushes beer cans on his head is going to have
a high level of status to the girls there. At an opening at a local
art gallery, he is going to have almost none. A skinny bass-playing
hipster is going to have high status at a local indie show and low
status at a business-networking event. A successful stock trader
who wears Armani suits is going to have high status at his firm’s
annual Christmas party and little status at a hippy music
festival.
It’s all relative. The key is to 1) recognize
your personal interests and strengths, and 2) build upon those
personal interests and strengths to quickly attract women in your
preferred demographic.
Social Proof
The concept of social proof comes from
influence psychology and is well documented in everything from
salesmanship to advertising, to politics, and to attraction and
relationships.
The idea is that as humans when we see many
other people valuing something, we will unconsciously value it
ourselves. For instance, if everybody else is talking about a new
movie, we are more likely to want to see it because we’ll
unconsciously assume that it’s a good or important movie to
see.
This works with people as well. If you’re at
a party and someone walks in and everybody in the party stops what
they’re doing to turn and say hello to that person, your first
thought would probably be, “Wow, who is that guy?” Chances are
you’d want to meet him as well.
The idea is that this applies to women and
attraction as well. If you are that man who walks into a
room and everybody stops what they are doing to talk to you, then
the women in the room are more likely to perceive you as high
status and be attracted to you. Or if you’re a man with whom
multiple women are flirting, then it’s going to incite even
more women to begin flirting with you.
This is one reason why men in power —
celebrities, athletes, etc. — are desired by so many women. The
goal, as a man, is to cultivate as much social proof within your
demographic as possible.
So, for instance, if you are a high-powered
executive at your firm, then you have a large degree of social
status and social proof at work. Chances are, the women who work
with you are going to have some degree of attraction for you. But
if you go to a bar on the weekend and know nobody there, then your
social status is back to nothing. You’re just another man
there.
Social proof only functions within a
demographic itself. That’s why once you’ve narrowed down your
demographic, you want to cultivate your connections and put
yourself into as big of a leadership position as possible. Don’t
just join the intramural ultimate Frisbee team, start organizing
it. Don’t just volunteer at a charity event, help find sponsors for
it. Don’t just go hang out at a local club, but become a promoter
for it.
Part of living the honest lifestyle is to
pursue what you’re passionate about to the fullest extent. If you
absolutely love visiting art exhibitions, don’t just visit a bunch
of art exhibitions, but take an active role in the organization,
start a meet up group to find other people who want to visit them,
or create a forum for commentary. Don’t just pursue your interests,
become a leader in your interests. Don’t just choose a demographic
of women to meet, dominate the demographic.
Hopefully by now you’re getting a clearer
idea of what demographic of women you’re currently attracting and
which demographic of women you’d like to attract. In the next
chapter, we will get into specifics on how to pursue the correct
demographic for you and become as attractive as you possibly can
be.
Being Something Versus Saying Something
If there’s one takeaway from this chapter,
it’s that it is far more powerful to be something attractive
rather than to say something attractive. You can say the
most attractive sentence in the world, but if it isn’t backed up by
who you are, then it’s not going to have any meaning. Whereas if
you are something amazing, then anything you say will be
attractive because it will be coming from a genuinely attractive
man.
Women are attracted to your identity. Words
mean nothing. What you say is only a means to buy you enough time
to show her that identity. Notice I said “show her” not “tell
her.”
For instance, imagine you meet two different
men. One of them is a scrubby, ugly, and shady character. He can’t
look you in the eye. He smells bad. He mumbles to himself and
scratches himself in inappropriate places. While you’re talking to
him, he looks at you and says, “You know, I get a good feeling from
you, you’re someone worth knowing.”
How would that make you feel?
You’d probably get the creeps and want to get
away from him as quickly as you could.
Now imagine you’re talking to a handsome,
successful man who is charismatic and charming. Everything he says
is fascinating and interesting. Then he looks you in the eye and
says, “You know, I get a good feeling from you, you’re someone
worth knowing.”
How would that make you feel?
It’d make your day. Why? Because the second
man is someone. He’s not just saying interesting and
charming things, but he is interesting and charming.
Suddenly the words that come out of his mouth have a whole new
weight and meaning.
Again, a lot of men take this as another
invitation to perform. Last night, I was in a restaurant with my
girlfriend. It was a nice and expensive restaurant. A couple sat
down at the table next to us. They were clearly on a date. The man
was a bit older and the woman was young and beautiful. The man
immediately closed the menu and said, “Don’t order anything, I know
something special that’s not on the menu and you’re going to eat
it.” The woman kind of meekly said, “OK.” The man then argued with
the waiter about cooking some mystery dish that wasn’t on the menu.
The man and the waiter went back and forth and soon it was apparent
to all of those sitting in our section that something awkward and
unnecessary was taking place. The woman became bored, irritated and
was soon deeply enmeshed in her phone, checking Facebook,
Instagram, Twitter, anything to get her away from this bonehead
sitting across from her.
In the man’s mind, he probably saw himself as
a successful, powerful man. What I saw was a pathetic performance,
overcompensation, a keen narcissism. A successful man doesn’t need
to prove he’s successful by ordering something not on the menu. A
powerful man doesn’t have to decree to his date what she’s going to
eat that night.
This is why trying to impress women by
flaunting an image of what you think is attractive will
always backfire. Men can go out and perform as much as they want —
for weeks, months, or even years — and they’ll never get good
results because they’re not portraying themselves well. They don’t
have a clear and successful identity. They aren’t in touch with the
way in which they’re living their lives.
When you’re like this man – when you’re
focused so much on performing rather than actually being – then you
are out of touch with your identity, who you are, and what you
want. And when you’re out of touch with yourself, you will fall
into the abyss of vague and empty demographics. You will aimlessly
claw for whatever woman comes near you. You will be left bewildered
at how you seem unable to polarize anyone.
Discovering your truth and establishing your
identity is necessary to determine the demographics of women you
desire and the demographics of women you appeal to. And, as we’ll
see, working your demographics underlies everything else in
dating.
Hopefully this chapter has helped you
question what you’re doing with your life, what your identity is,
what you want out of your relationships, and what kind of women
you’d like to attract.
The next chapter is going to get into
specifics on how to build up an attractive lifestyle within your
chosen identity and within your chosen demographic.