Polarization


In Part I, we learned that male
attractiveness is based on how non-needy one is and how comfortable
one is in expressing one’s desire and vulnerability. We also
learned the limitations of attraction and how most of the women in
the world at any given time are not going to be compatible with you
no matter what you say or do.
In Part II, our goal is to create a real
world strategy based on these realities so that any man can map out
a clear way to improve his dating life quickly and drastically.
The goals of this strategy are efficacy and
practicality. This is a strategy based on reality, not based
on some sort of mythology about unlocking the secrets of every
woman, or lofty promises to be able to sleep with every single hot
girl you ever meet.
As a result, the strategy in this book deals
with realities that a lot of other men’s dating advice does not
deal with; namely, rejection, race, age, appearance, shame,
honesty, emotional connection and did I mention rejection?
You will get rejected. But don’t worry. It’s
a good thing.
A lot of dating advice, particularly of the
performance variety, tries to promise the ability to have sex with
any girl you want, regardless of... well, pretty much anything. You
could be a fat slob living in your mother’s basement, and with the
right two or three lines, you too can date a lingerie model (as if
there’s a lingerie model hanging out on every street corner).
This is a fairy tale. And not only is it a
fairy tale, it’s a fairy tale you don’t actually want to live. It
feeds your neediness.
Rejection exists for a reason — it’s a means
to keep people apart who are not good for each other.
Men don’t seem to understand that if a woman
rejects him because he’s short, or because she doesn’t like his
hair, or because she finds him boring, then he wasn’t going to
enjoy being around her anyway.
Ask yourself this: why would you want to be
intimate with someone who doesn't appreciate you? Why would you
ever settle for such a person? Because she's hot? Come on,
have a little more self-respect. Have some higher standards.
Again, the men who are needy and have poor
self-esteem are the ones who are willing to completely alter their
personalities in order to seduce any woman. The first step
to being more attractive is to see rejection as a means to
eliminate women who won't make you happy from your life. It's a
blessing, not a curse.
So let’s start at the beginning. There are an
infinite number of women out there, and we can’t possibly meet or
even know all of them. So our first task is to find a way to narrow
them down and screen them in a way that we can manage our
opportunities better.
The Three Categories of Women
Let’s start with all of the women on the
planet. That’s something like 3.6 billion or so.
Obviously, you are not going to desire the
majority of the women in the world. So we can cross out all of the
ones who are physically not to your taste. If you don’t find a
woman attractive, don’t hit on her, don’t ask her out, don’t do
anything.
That said, decide whatever you like in a
woman by your own standards. If you like big girls or curvy girls,
go for it. If you prefer black girls with dreadlocks, more power to
you. If you like older women or younger women, cool. Don’t pressure
yourself to live up to someone else’s standards. And again, for the
love of god, if you don’t find her attractive, don’t pursue
her.
For practical purposes, we can divide up all
of the women you’re attracted to into three categories: Receptive,
Neutral and Unreceptive.
Let’s start with Unreceptive.
Women who are Unreceptive are just that:
they’re unavailable and/or uninterested in having a sexual/romantic
relationship with you. The most common reasons that put women in
this category are the following:
- You’re far needier than she is, and she’s
therefore not attracted to you.
- She has a boyfriend/husband and is happy in her
relationship.
- There’s too much friction preventing her from
being willing to date you, such as a difference in values,
difference in interests, bad logistics, etc.
- She’s not interested or looking for any man
at the moment.
The way to tell if a woman is Unreceptive is
if she repeatedly does not reciprocate your signs of interest
and/or shows you signs of disinterest. If you invite her out for
coffee and she keeps making excuses to why she can’t, then she’s
Unreceptive. If you call her three times and she never calls back,
then she is Unreceptive. If you chat her up and she explains that
she is busy and wants to be alone, then she is Unreceptive. If you
hang out with her and she talks about how frustrated she is with
her boyfriend and how you’re such a good listener, then she’s
Unreceptive.
No exceptions. Many men waste a lot of time
convincing themselves that Unreceptive women may actually like
them. A good rule of thumb here is, “if you have to ask, then
that’s your answer.” That is, there should be no ambiguity here.
And if there is, you can quickly solve it by simply stating to her,
“I think you’re cute/pretty/attractive/funny/whatever, want to grab
coffee/dinner/a drink sometime?”
Problem solved. You’ll find out where you are
very quickly.
But I’m getting ahead of myself…
The next category is Neutral. This category
can be difficult for men to understand because it’s not as common
for us as it is for women. Typically, a man knows within a few
seconds if he’s willing to meet and even sleep with a woman or
not.
Women aren’t like that. They spend a lot of
time being unsure about a man and need to be swayed one way or the
other.
Women in this category are usually women who
you’ve just met or have only spent a little bit of time with. The
important thing to know is that women do not ever stay in
this category. They eventually polarize one way or the other. And
if you never make an advance or show interest in them, then they
will usually polarize towards being Unreceptive (this is the
Friend Zone, which we’ll cover in a minute).
Neutral women are generally just that,
neutral. They will not necessarily turn down your offers, but they
won’t offer or reciprocate themselves. The jury’s still out.
They’ll often tentatively say yes, although they won’t seem overly
enthusiastic about it. They’re still testing the waters. Or
sometimes, they just haven’t considered you in that way yet.
The goal with Neutral women is to polarize
them through your words and behaviors. This may mean flirting with
them or teasing them. It may mean asking her on a date. It may be
as simple as smiling at her from across the room. Whatever it is,
the goal with Neutral women is to take an action that forces her to
make a decision about how she feels about you. Which side she
polarizes to is far less important than actually taking action. And
remember, if you leave her to her neutrality, she will
usually become Unreceptive and not see you as dating
material.
And in the final category, women who are
Receptive are women who are sexually/romantically attracted to you.
You can recognize women who are Receptive in two ways: 1) they
initiate with you, and/or 2) they reciprocate your actions
enthusiastically.
Some examples of a woman initiating with
you:
- She makes strong eye contact with you and doesn’t
break it.
- She approaches you.
- She touches you unprovoked.
- She asks for your number or invites you out with
her/her friends.
- She asks you a lot of questions about yourself and
seems genuinely interested in you.
- She introduces you to her friends.
- She gives you her number.
- She comes up with some excuse/story/reason for you
to hang out with her or spend time with her.
Chances are if you’re reading this book, many
of the girlfriends or sexual experiences you’ve had with women in
the past only happened because she initiated with you.
That’s fine. But just going about your life,
unless you are extremely good-looking or have a great lifestyle or
you manage to meet women through good social contacts, few women
are going to initiate with you and the few who do won’t initiate
often.
In fact, most women, especially very
beautiful women, even if they’re attracted to you, won’t initiate
with you. Remember, women tend to be less invested before sex,
therefore, they (usually) expect men to initiate in the beginning.
There are also strong cultural pressures on women to wait for the
man to initiate.
The other way women demonstrate that they’re
Receptive is when they reciprocate. It’s important to recognize the
subtle difference between a woman reciprocating your advances and a
woman being neutral toward your advances. A woman who is Neutral
will simply not respond at all. For instance, if you touch a
Neutral woman on her back while you speak to her, she’ll just act
like you’re not touching her.
A woman who is reciprocating will do
something to respond positively to your advance. Think of it as her
signaling to you that she accepts your advancing on her and likes
it. If you touched a woman on the back and she wanted to
reciprocate, she would either lean back into you, lean in closer to
you, or touch you in return.
Here are some other common examples of
reciprocation:
- She ignores her friends to stay and talk to
you.
- She keeps very strong eye contact and laughs a
little too much at everything you say.
- When you touch her, she touches you in return.
- When you put your arm around her, she leans into
you.
- When you take her hand to move somewhere, she
holds it in return.
- When you ask her out on a date, she offers a place
to go or mentions something she’d like to do with you.
Most interested women will reciprocate on
small signals to show that they’re interested in you. Catching on
to how women reciprocate and noticing the signals is something that
you develop with experience, but it shouldn’t be too hard if you
know what to pay attention to.
A lot of the methods of flirting that we’ll
cover in Part V will address the specific ways in which women
reciprocate and how to handle them.
Unfortunately, the vast majority of women you
will meet, assuming you’re a typical guy, will be either Neutral or
Unreceptive. This is true for the most of the male population,
myself included, so don’t worry.
The percentage of women that you meet in each
category will vary widely from man to man and also vary widely
depending on the context in which you meet women.
For instance, you could be a 40-year-old
investing mogul, and at networking events or conferences, you may
find that 40% or more women are Receptive and few make themselves
Unreceptive or Neutral.
But that same man can go to a nightclub full
of drunken 20-year-olds and soon find that only 1% of women are
Receptive or Neutral, and 99% are Unreceptive.
This is a concept I call Demographics,
and I’ve devoted all of Chapter 7 to it because it’s extremely
important.
The exact percentages of women falling into
each category aren’t really that relevant. A lot of men, and even a
lot of dating advice books, misplace a lot of time and effort due
to not understanding these three categories and the strategies that
go along with them.
Strategies for Each Category
Your course of action will differ depending
on the type of woman you meet. Many men make the mistake of
applying the wrong strategy to the wrong category of women. For
instance, they’ll try to convince an Unreceptive woman to become
Receptive. Or they’ll treat a woman who’s already Receptive as if
she isn’t yet. Not only is this a time waster, it’s also
ineffective.
The goal with Unreceptive women is to
identify them and move on as quickly as possible. They’re time
sinks. Typically, if women are Unreceptive, they’re Unreceptive for
a good reason, and it has little to do with you (or maybe it does
has everything to do with you, in which case you should learn from
it).
You’re almost never going to change the mind
of an Unreceptive woman, and even when you do it’s often not worth
the effort.
I strongly believe in the idea of “Fuck Yes
or No.” That is, I want women to say “Fuck Yes,” once they’ve
gotten to know me. And if they aren’t enthusiastic and excited
about being with me, then I’m not interested in them anymore. So
Unreceptive women simply aren’t worth my time or effort to pursue.
They could be great people and maybe I’ll be friends with them. But
the minute they’re Unreceptive towards me, my interests have moved
on.
I’ll say this: in seven years, after meeting
thousands of women, I can think of maybe five instances where a
woman was flat out Unreceptive towards me and I “won her over.” If
she shuts you down, tells you to go away, tells you she’s not
interested, tells you she has a boyfriend, move on. Seriously, get
over it and move on. You’re wasting your time. I don’t care how
special you think she is, there’s another one out there who’s just
as special who will be Receptive to you.
The two most common time sinks with
Unreceptive Women are the Friend Zone and women in
relationships.
The Friend Zone occurs when a woman has
categorized you as a friend and not a potential lover. For women,
these categories are almost always mutually exclusive. A man is
either a friend, or a potential sexual partner, but rarely both.
There are exceptions, but they are rare.
Once inside of it, the Friend Zone is almost
impossible to get out. And if you do ever get out, it’s likely not
due to anything you tried or did anyway. Why? Because a man who
does not act on his sexual desires is a man who is needy, lacks
vulnerability and is therefore unattractive.
The Friend Zone typically occurs when a man
meets a Receptive or Neutral woman but never makes a move or
expresses his interest. Instead, he behaves pleasantly, like a good
friend would. In his mind, this is great because it means she likes
talking to him, laughs at his jokes, etc. But because he’s
withholding his sexual interest, he’s placing himself in her mind
firmly in the “friend” camp.
A classic, yet painful example of the Friend
Zone happened with a friend of my ex-girlfriend. When I met her,
she was moving into her new apartment. There were two guys helping
her move in. One was a tall fellow who obviously seemed eager to
please her and help as much as he could. It did not take long to
recognize that he was quite needy around her and made poor attempts
to flirt, which she did not reciprocate.
She, of course, being an attractive girl, was
not highly invested back, and so I immediately pegged him as in her
Friend Zone. As it turned out, I was right.
This guy hated me the whole time I dated her.
He was convinced that I was an asshole because he had been so nice
to her for so long, and I came along and simply asked her out
without giving a shit whether she said yes or not. Funny how that
works. A couple years later, after she and I broke up and remained
friends, he refused to let her talk about me around him. During
this period, he made numerous attempts to get with her, sometimes
going as far as making tearful proclamations that he had been in
love with her for years.
Needless to say, all of these attempts turned
her off and she shut down. It ruined the friendship. They had been
friends with each other for over four years, and the degree of
investment he was showing, even despite his behavior (the fact that
he spent four years working up the nerve to make a move)
sub-communicated a massive degree of neediness and horrible
self-worth.
Obviously, she rejected him. Again and again,
she rejected him. So he became angry. And perceiving me to have
been an asshole who didn’t treat her well, he decided to try to be
an asshole who didn’t treat her well either. He went down the road
of narcissism and overcompensation. He began to behave
disrespectfully towards her, believing that she must have no
self-respect if she rejected men who treated her so well like he
did. And in a growing irony, feeling entitled due to how “nice” he
had been for years, he felt as though he deserved to treat her
worse and objectify her, to the point where one night he physically
tried to force her to kiss him.
Needless to say, the friendship was over, as
she refused to ever see him again.
The Friend Zone is the biggest possible time
sink because most men who are stuck in it entertain fantasies that
they’re simply waiting for the inevitable to occur. It plays into
their fantasies of romance and destiny. Their perspective is that
they are the perfect man for her and one day when she
wakes up and realizes how foolish she is, she’ll realize that the
love of her life had been sitting right there by her side all
along.
This never happens. Ever. It’s an incredibly
arrogant and manipulative mindset to adopt. It’s no wonder women
see it as so unattractive.
If you are in this situation now, you need to
get it out of your head and move on. Immediately. Typically, if men
have been friends with a woman for even a month or two without ever
explicitly indicating their sexual interest in her, it’s likely too
late.
You must indicate some sort of sexual
interest early on. Otherwise, the longer you wait, the harder it
gets and the more likely she will become Unreceptive to you. Again,
ask yourself what waiting four years to state your interest in a
girl sub-communicates to her. It sub-communicates, “I am so much
more invested in you than in myself that I spent four years working
up the nerve to show you my interest.” It’s extremely unattractive.
And chances are, she’s knows! She always knew! Which just makes it
worse.
The second time sink that men often get
sucked into is a woman that is happily in a relationship. Unlike
the Friend Zone where men will often waste away months or years, a
woman in a relationship will usually only waste a few weeks, maybe
a few months at the most. But still, a time sink is a time
sink.
A lot of men get hung up on women who are
already taken, and rather than cut their losses and move on, they
harbor some fantasy that any woman will cheat on her
boyfriend/husband given the right circumstance. This isn’t true.
And even in the cases that it is true, it’s also not worth the time
or effort.
Waiting around for a woman in a relationship
is simply not worth it. Period. Trying to sabotage a woman’s
relationship so you can swoop in and “steal” her is not only
ineffectual but morally fucked up. It’s neediness and narcissism to
an extreme degree.
What a lot of men don’t understand
though is that oftentimes, married or taken women will still flirt
with other men for no other reason than they think it’s fun and
they like the attention. To some women, flirting is like a hobby
and they see it as harmless fun. If a woman is married or has a
boyfriend and seems pretty happy in general and is flirting with
me, then I don’t take the flirting too seriously.
Men also struggle a lot with the rejection,
“I have a boyfriend.” Some men seem to get obsessed about whether
this is actually true or she’s just saying it to reject him.
Once again, it’s not about whether her
statement is factual or not. It’s about her intention. The
intention is, “I’m not interested.”
Take that at face value and move on.
Even if she doesn’t have a boyfriend, there’s no point in trying to
win over a girl who is willing to lie about something like that to
you. And if she does have a boyfriend, then she’s probably happy
with him, otherwise, she wouldn’t have brought it up.
And that’s really the crux of the matter:
women who have boyfriends/husbands who are willing to cheat on
them, don’t bring up their boyfriends/husbands... almost ever.
Typically, you’ll hear about them either immediately before or
immediately after you hook up with them. If they tell you about
them right when you meet them, then they’re not interested. If they
tell you about their boyfriend while they’re making out with you in
the cab back to your apartment, then she’s probably interested. But
you don’t need me to tell you that.
So your mission with Unreceptive women is to
spot them as quickly as possible, and then politely move on.
Rejection, in this case, is often your friend, as we’ll see
later.
It’s not until you find a woman who is
Neutral or better that things begin to get interesting.
The goal with Neutral Women is to get them to
stop being Neutral as soon as possible. As we mentioned earlier,
women who are Neutral and who stay Neutral tend to eventually end
up Unreceptive. You do this by expressing your vulnerability and
your identity to them freely.
When you express your truth to women, you
will polarize them — they will either become Receptive to you or
they will make themselves Unreceptive. When you express your truth,
if you express more investment than them, then they will be not be
attracted to you and will therefore be Unreceptive. Also, if you
express your truth and there is a high amount of friction between
you and her that cannot be overcome, then she will become
Unreceptive
If you express your truth and demonstrate not
only that you’re non-needy but also frictionless for her (similar
interests, values, life situation, etc.), then she will become very
Receptive. And when I say very Receptive, I mean very.
A big misconception men have is that they
think they need to behave in a way that makes every single woman
like them – as if women were all the same. This is
counterproductive because by altering your behavior to fit whatever
she wants, it means you are not being vulnerable and, therefore,
you are being needy and unattractive.
Other men often stick to plain jokes and safe
topics of conversation that end up not polarizing at all for fear
of being rejected. This is also a form of hiding one’s truth, not
showing vulnerability, being over-invested and therefore not
attractive.
This is the plight of the highly needy “Nice
Guy.” He’s afraid of eliciting an emotional response in anybody,
especially women (and especially himself); therefore, he’ll play it
safe and elicit Neutral reactions from woman after woman. And when
women are Neutral for too long without being polarized, then they
will make themselves Unreceptive.
If there is one thing that narcissistic men
accomplish well, it’s that they will polarize women quickly. Women
will know more or less immediately if they’re interested in a
narcissistic guy or not because he will be so overbearing and
imposing she’ll have no choice other than to feel something for
him.
The problem with the narcissistic man is that
the few women who become Receptive to him are not the type of women
who are pleasant to be around (as they’re highly needy
themselves).
As you can see, Neutral women are where
so-called “game” comes into play. Having good game means you can
take a woman who is Neutral and incite her to become Receptive to
you quickly. You do this by making yourself vulnerable, sharing
yourself unabashedly, and polarizing her one way or the other and
being comfortable with either result.
For instance, I recently met a beautiful
woman in a nightclub. She danced with me but ignored my attempts to
get closer to her. She seemed content to dance with me but was not
investing any effort in the interaction beyond that. Sensing that I
could easily get stuck dancing with her all night without actually
polarizing her, I asked that we go get a drink. I told her I'd like
to get to know her a bit better and talk. She obliged.
At the bar, the first question out of my
mouth is one of my favorites for Neutral situations: "What's your
favorite thing in the world?"
This question will tell me two things: how
passionate and self-aware she is about her own life, and secondly
if we have anything in common. Women who are not passionate or
self-aware I drop very quickly and go meet someone else. Women who
share interests with me give me an opportunity to polarize them
quickly to being Receptive.
For instance, if a woman answers "Jesus,"
then I know I'm heading straight for Unreceptive right then and
there. Not that I hate Jesus or anything, but let’s just say
there’s a conflict of interests. This polarization is a good thing,
though, even though it ends up with me not getting the girl in the
end. We're both better off not being together. And by me eliciting
her religiosity early on, we find that out sooner rather than
later.
In this particular example at the nightclub,
the woman answered traveling and experiencing new cultures. Bingo.
I love to travel. I've been to over 40 countries. I tell her this.
Sure enough, within 30 minutes, we were sitting alone together,
enrapt in a conversation about grammar and the Russian
language.
Do Russian grammar lessons strike you as an
effective pick up tactic? Probably not. But I dig it. And so did
she. And she eventually became my girlfriend. My success was about
expressing my identity, forcing her to make a decision about me and
letting the chips fall where they may.
Finally, we have the Receptive women. Finding
these are the best because they are the most rewarding interactions
while requiring the least amount of effort. When you meet a
Receptive woman, the goal is simple. You escalate. You make a move.
You move things forward — assuming you want to, of course.
Receptive women who were originally Neutral,
if you do not make a move and become physical with them quickly
enough, they will often drift back to Neutral and then to
Unreceptive permanently. But I’ve found that women who are
Receptive to you to begin with will usually stay Receptive almost
indefinitely. I think these are the only rare occasions when you
can actually pry yourself out of the Friend Zone — these rare
circumstances where she was always Receptive to you, but for
whatever reason, you two weren’t able to be together (you had a
girlfriend, she moved away for three years, etc.).
The percentage of women who are Receptive to
you will increase proportionally to the quality of your lifestyle,
your social status, and your looks. The percentage of women that
you’re able to move from Neutral to Receptive will be proportional
to how good your “game” is, or how well you’re able to communicate
and express yourself with women. And your ability to sort through
each type of women and meet as many as possible will be determined
by how fearless and bold you are when it comes to meeting
women.
(That last paragraph was important and the
basis for the rest of this book, so you may want to read it again
and make sure you understand it.)
While most pick up advice obsesses over the
avoidance of rejection, rejection plays an integral part in my
strategy. It’s unavoidable, so I figure we may as well develop a
strategy that uses it to help us. Rejection exists for a reason. If
you are a professor at a prestigious university, then you’re
probably not going to enjoy your time with a high school dropout
with an alcohol problem. Just because she has a nice ass doesn’t
mean you want to be with her.
Polarizing women into rejecting us — and when
I say us, I mean the real us, the vulnerable and unabashed
us — does us a favor by sorting out which women are going to make
us happy.
Men often want to have it both ways
— they want to be able to avoid painful rejections, avoid
saying something stupid, avoid embarrassing themselves, while at
the same time being this attractive, amazing guy who women fall to
their knees for.
You can’t have it both ways.
The two go together. You cannot be an
attractive and life-changing presence to some women without being a
joke or an embarrassment to others. You simply can’t. You have to
be controversial. You have to polarize. It’s the name of the game.
And getting good at the game is learning to open yourself up enough
emotionally, learning to express your honest self enough and be
comfortable enough with your vulnerability to take those
embarrassing moments along with the moments of passion. A
willingness to polarize is not easy. But it’s necessary. It’s why
you’re here right now.
Polarizing to Attract
Our primary strategy with women is
polarization. The idea is that the more forthright you are about
who you are, how you feel, and what you think, the more this is
going to weed out Unreceptive Women from the Receptive women, as
well as push Neutral women to get off the fence and decide how they
feel about you.
The amazing thing about polarization is that
the simple act of doing it demonstrates non-neediness and will then
inspire more Neutral women to become Receptive than other
strategies or tactics.
Like I mentioned earlier, the most common
strategy by men who are inexperienced with women is “to be liked by
all, hated by none.” But when it comes to being intimate and
attracting women, this is a horrible strategy. Being hated by
nobody usually means you’re not loved by anybody either.
The men who employ this strategy employ it
because they’re trying to avoid confrontation and controversy. Many
of these men have been avoiding confrontation and controversy their
entire lives. It’s part of their fear of vulnerability.
The fact is that sexuality, attraction, and
relationships are, by their very nature, confrontational and
controversial. You have to either make the decision to accept being
controversial and confrontational or you need to accept that you
will go through life with everyone being Neutral towards you.
Polarization is what occurs when you express
your truth and make yourself vulnerable. When you tell a woman she
is beautiful, you are polarizing her. When you tease her about her
earrings and put your arm around her, you’re polarizing her. When
you wear a custom-made suit when you go out, you are polarizing
women. When you tell a woman who’s late to a date to never be late
again, you are polarizing her. When you smile and tell her how
beautiful she is, you’re polarizing her. When you take her hand in
yours and lead her somewhere, you are polarizing her.
Everything that is attractive is
polarizing.
These are never wrong moves, assuming that
they are honest expressions of yourself and you are showing
your vulnerability.
A man who is highly invested is going to
alter his behaviors based on the woman he’s talking to. He’s going
to be afraid to tell her that he doesn’t accept her being late.
He’s going to be afraid to wear that suit out. He’s going to be
timid when he wants to put his arm around her. He’s going to be
unable to make himself vulnerable, express his truth, and will
therefore not polarize her.
A man who is uninhibited about expressing his
emotions and what he wants will demonstrate non-neediness, thereby
attracting a woman and immediately forcing her to decide whether
she’s Receptive or Unreceptive. And chances are, unless there’s a
lot of friction present, she will become Receptive. You’d be
surprised how many women will respond with attraction to nothing
other than a man who is bold and willing to stick his neck out.
A lot of men assume that this means you are
inviting a mountain of rejection onto you. The surprising thing is
this is rarely the case. Yes, you will get rejected when you
polarize women. And yes, every once in a while it will be a harsh
rejection.
But surprisingly, a lot of women will
react warmly to these advances, even if they’re not interested and
reject you. They respect a man who is bold and honest. I’ve had
tons occasions where I approached women boldly and honestly,
stating directly that they were beautiful and I wanted to meet
them, and despite rejecting me, they were so impressed by my
boldness and confidence that they promptly introduced me to a
friend of theirs who was available.
I’ve often been thanked by the women who I’ve
unsuccessfully hit on, not because I did it, but for the way I
did it. And even when things go nowhere, women at least respect
me and the fact that I bluntly state what I feel.
Most of the harsh rejections I’ve had in my
life came from when I was performing, seeking validation, when I
was over-invested and needy and overcompensating. When I pursue
women in a vulnerable way, almost every woman at the very least
will respect my advances, even if she’s not interested.
In my experience, the more polarizing a man
is, the more they are flooded with opportunities with women. This
is true for every man I know who is incredibly successful with
meeting and dating women.
The biggest mental hurdle for many men is the
ability to handle rejection. A lot of men have had it ingrained
into them all of their lives — and even by other dating advice —
that rejection is terrible and should be avoided at all costs. They
buy into some myth that there are magical lady’s men out there that
don’t get rejected, ever.
And as we’ll see, this is not true.