What If It Was a Gift?


Over the course of the previous 230
pages, we’ve discovered that attraction flows from women perceiving
non-neediness and a sense of inner security in men. This confidence
and security arise from having a stronger identity and investment
in oneself than in the perception of others. This sub-communicates
that as a man, you’re dependable, confident and high status (or
likely to become high status).
The way to cultivate a higher investment in
oneself, the way to becoming more confident, is actually
counterintuitive. We learned that showing vulnerability, both in
emotion and action, actually leads to a higher investment in
oneself and higher non-neediness.
This newfound confidence then allows you to
express yourself more clearly and directly. When you express
yourself more clearly and directly, you polarize the reactions of
women, opening yourself up to more rejection, but also attracting
other women stronger than ever before. Attracting women occurs
through a process of self-selection. The rate at which you attract
them happens through a process of overcoming fear. And the
consistency in which you seduce those women attracted happens
through a process of expressing your sexuality. These are the three
fundamentals.
Presented in these pages are all of the tools
I can ever imagine a man ever needing to renovate himself and
become more successful with women. Undoubtedly for you, it will be
difficult at times. You will run into speed bumps, detours,
distractions, and emotional highs lows. But if you persist and stay
optimistic, you will get there. I’m absolutely sure of it.
And in those times that it does become
difficult, those times where you do get frustrated and fall back to
your unconfident beliefs, your desire for external validation,
where you let yourself become swayed by the whims of others rather
than your internal compass, you may feel lost or hopeless. This
feeling of hopelessness may last for minutes, hours or days, but
chances are if you push yourself, if you genuinely try to change
yourself and re-orient how you interact with the world, then you
will feel it at some point.
And for those times, let me share with you a
phrase that has helped me and countless other men through those
dire straits.
The phrase comes from Dr. Robert Glover and
his book No More Mr. Nice Guy, one of the best books I’ve
ever read on men’s emotional health and development.
The phrase is: “What if it was a gift?”
Whatever happens to you, no matter how bad,
no matter how bleak you feel, ask yourself, “What if it was a
gift?” and then try to rationalize a way it could be so.
Because you see, in the world of emotions,
there are no absolutes; you can usually draw whichever conclusions
you desire. So why not choose to draw conclusions of blessings,
positivity, and gifts?
Ex-girlfriend dumps you and left you for
another man. What if it was a gift? Because without her, you would
not have been put on this path of self-improvement, and you would
have forever been stuck in a relationship full of deceit and
without self-awareness.
A woman makes fun of your hair and calls you
ugly. What if it was a gift? Such a harsh rejection will steel you
into becoming even more confident in the future, and hopefully,
will inspire you to re-evaluate how you look.
Your friends tell you that approaching women
is creepy and that you’re a loser for wanting to do it. What if it
was a gift? It shows that what you’re doing and what you’re working
on is pushing social boundaries, is polarizing, and is ultimately
making you more controversial and attractive.
When I was 19 years old, a friend of mine
drowned right in front of me. We were at a party on a lake. One
minute he was there, laughing, smiling, joking, and the next moment
he was gone. Forever.
It was one of the biggest gifts I’ve ever
been given. Not because it was good. It was tragic. But because of
how it affected me ever since.
Obviously, that night was shocking and
traumatizing. But I came away from the experience with a keen
awareness of how transient this existence is. How any of us can be
taken at any moment. How no one is going to live my life for me,
and every second I spend sitting around feeling distant from my
true desires, avoiding the world and being afraid to engage it, is
a second that I’m forfeiting the biggest gift of all: my time here
in this life.
His death shocked me, depressed me and scared
me, but it scared me into having the courage to take risks, to
express myself, to invest in my self-perception more than the
perceptions of others. Because after all, sooner or later this will
all disappear, and none of it will matter. So you might as well
make the most of it while you’re here.
And ultimately, that’s all that I can hope
for you. That you make the most of your time here. That you take
the tools I’ve laid out here and go out and forge a unique path for
yourself and experience the love, the thrills, and the happiness
that this life can reward you.
Because that is what life does: it rewards
you. It’s giving you gifts every day.
Are you going to accept them?