Physicality and Sex


Let’s talk about sex. And more
specifically, why women have it, and why they would ever want to
have it with you.
Female sexuality has been a murky area in
psychology for almost a century now. Freud famously said at one
point, “The great question that has never been answered, and which
I have not yet been able to answer, despite my thirty years of
research into the feminine soul, is ‘what do women want?’”
Among researchers, it was long thought that
female arousal was tied to ideas and display of security,
investment and commitment, particularly from high-status men.
But if you think about it, you know, here in
the real world, this doesn’t really make sense. Because
unfortunately for psychologists, women don’t light candles and lay
in their bathtubs masturbating to a mortgage and a white picket
fence. They fantasize about far different (and stranger)
things.
In her book, My Secret Garden, the
journalist Nancy Friday collected anonymous sexual fantasies from
women around the world. If you ever want your mind expanded in an
interesting way, check it out. There are women out there who get
turned on by some really, well, let’s call it “creative” stuff.
We’re talking about gangbangs, rape, weird locations and positions,
anonymous men, and so on and so forth.
So this sort of data threw a bit of a monkey
wrench into everything. For many years, scientists didn’t really
know where to start. With men it was pretty easy — we’re primarily
visually stimulated, and we generally all like similar features
(symmetry, certain hip/waist ratio, large breasts, etc.)
But with women, you may as well throw shit at
a dartboard because that’s about as far as things were getting.
One new conclusion in arousal research these
days is that female arousal is somewhat narcissistic in nature.
Women are turned on by being wanted, by being desired.
(Note: Men are as well, although since female
arousal is affected more by psychological stimuli than physical
stimuli on average, this is far more important for female
arousal.)
This actually explains some the odd and
disparate things that seem to turn some women on. Seemingly
disconnected events that arouse women — a romantic marriage
proposal in one instance, being tied up to the bathroom sink in
another — make sense when viewed this way. Both indicate an extreme
desire in her by a man. A man who’s willing to sacrifice everything
to be with her. In one instance, the man is willing to commit his
entire life to her. In another he’s, willing to go to physical
extremes for her. Both are hot.
When women say that just because they have
rape fantasies doesn’t mean they want to be raped, this is what
they mean. What they want is to be desired. An unhinged desire. A
passionate and uncontrollable desire. They want to be desired to
the point that a man completely loses awareness and self-control.
The actual rape part — I’m sure none of them would actually
enjoy.
My experience supports this as well. Those in
the men’s dating advice industry have discovered over the past five
years or so that the more assertively you pursue a woman, the more
aroused she becomes. There’s something almost “magical” about an
uninhibited physicality when being with a woman.
Something as simple as taking a guy who
usually stands there blabbering for hours about meteorology or
something, if you take that same guy and have him put his arm
around the woman he’s talking to or have him lightly touch her as
if punctuating his points and jokes, this generates way more sexual
tension.
Indeed, sexuality, in the end, is all about
movement and our bodies entwining themselves. Everything else is
kind of just a means to reach that point.
I’m going to say this point-blank: getting
physical with women, and getting physical quickly and comfortably,
is ultimately the difference between having a lot of female
friends, and having a lot of girlfriends and dates.
Being physical with women is by far the most
integral piece of seduction and dating women. If you have it, you
will constantly have options. If you don’t, you will spend a lot of
time alone.
I have a friend. He’s a decent-looking guy.
He almost never approaches (except when he’s drunk). He’s awkward
to talk to. He has a strange sense of humor. But he gets physical
with women. He touches them early. He touches them often. And even
if they don’t reciprocate or move away. He tries again. In other
words, he’s always going for it.
And you know what? He gets laid constantly.
With hot women too.
It’s amazing. I used to hang out with him and
would watch him awkwardly stumble around conversations, drink a
little too much, and awkwardly putting his arm around girls as the
girls sat there with a look of confusion. I’d watch him and think
to myself, “Oh man, what a disaster.”
And then I’d come back 20 minutes later and
he’d be making out with her. And then an hour later she’d be
excitedly going home with him.
He just has no inhibitions whatsoever about
going for it. Unless the girl would clearly stop him or say “No!”
he would always be going for it. And the women loved it. They loved
his physicality and his raw sexual energy. It made them feel
beautiful and sexy and it was exciting.
(Ethical note here: if a woman clearly tells
you to stop doing something, stop. Don’t take offense, but instead,
ask her if she’s uncomfortable and/or why she’s uncomfortable.
Often it’s not that she doesn’t like you, it’s just that you’re
moving too fast for her. Always respect her boundaries and clarify
as early as possible what she’s comfortable with and what her
expectations are. Not only is this the vulnerable thing to do, it’s
also the respectful thing to do.)
Being physical with women is a necessary
habit that most men who are poor with women never do. Most men are
a bit shy and hesitant when it comes to “making moves:” touching,
the first kiss, sexual touching, etc. Well, that needs to stop.
From now on, you are a sexually assertive and dominant guy and you
have no shame about it. We’ll also discover that women actually
prefer you to be this way.
There are two reasons for being physically
assertive with women. The first is polarization. You want to
establish whether she’s sexually interested in you as soon as you
possibly can. The second reason is that being physical is bold and,
therefore, a highly attractive form of flirting.
Studies have shown that people being touched
by somebody when they first meet them not only have a much higher
probability of thinking favorably of them, but they also were shown
to trust them quicker.
So how do you touch a girl right off the
bat?
As you having a conversation with her,
assuming she is Receptive, just lightly touch her on the arm, near
the elbow. Don’t press hard or hold it, as that could startle her,
but just a small brush or tap or light squeeze. Use your touching
to punctuate the conversation, as if emphasizing a funny moment or
the punchline of the joke. Think of touching as the exclamation
marks or question marks of the dialogue.
For instance, let’s say you make a clever
joke and she begins to laugh really hard, you should put your hand
on her arm to punctuate the emotion of the moment.
The best way to touch is to integrate
physicality into your conversation. For example, using games such
as thumb wars, twirling her like a ballerina, or giving high fives
are great ways to initiate physical contact. As the conversation
goes on, the better things are going, the more you want to be
touching and the more personal you want your touches to be.
Your touching should happen in a progression.
In general, you want to start on the outside of her body — her arms
and legs — and slowly move closer into her body. Put your hand on
her back as you move her to sit down with you, put your arm around
her lower back as she leans against the bar next to you, etc. Later
on, this progression will continue into intimacy: tickling,
massages, and cuddling (or spooning). And from there it will
continue on into kissing, petting, and becoming sexual.
Signals Women Give
Men are notoriously bad at recognizing
“signals” women give them when they’re interested. In the courtship
process, it’s always the man’s responsibility to take action and
make the moves, and the woman’s responsibility to give him signals,
telling him when to proceed and when to stop.
Throughout this chapter, we will be
discussing physically escalating with a woman. This involves
touching her in sexual ways.
As men, we’re kind of stuck in a weird place.
Because on the one hand, we’re always expected to initiate and make
the first move. But on the other, we’re supposed to respect a
woman’s desires and right to her own body.
This is why before proceeding with advice
about getting sexual with women, I want to take a moment to list
out the signals women give that indicate she is sexually interested
in you. You should see these somewhat as invitations to proceed
with them physically, although due to potential miscommunication,
don’t make too many assumptions. What we’re looking for is a
consistent stream of signals coming from her to you. Pre-approach
signals mean she wants to talk to you. Conversational signals mean
she wants to get closer to you physically. And escalation signals
mean that she wants to get sexual with you.
View these signals as green lights when they
come up, but only to move to the next group of signals (i.e., just
because a woman makes eye contact with you doesn’t mean she wants
to fuck you right then and there, it just means she’s curious about
talking to you.) Take it one step at a time, and remember, she
always has the right to back out or change her mind at any
moment.
Pre-Approach Signals
- Non-Accidental Eye Contact: When in doubt, assume
it’s not accidental. Humans are programmed to look at and focus on
whatever they’re either curious about or what they find attractive.
If she’s looking at you even 10% more than the average stranger,
then she’s at least somewhat curious/interested in you. I make a
point to approach every woman who makes non-accidental eye contact
with me, and it serves me well.
- Smiling: If eye contact means she’s interested,
this means “you better come talk to me!”
- She Approaches You: This goes without saying,
although a lot of guys are so oblivious, they even miss this. If a
woman approaches you, even if it’s to ask the time, about the
weather, for directions, or whatever, chances are she has some
interest in talking to you.
- Proximity: This one is subtle, but the more you
work on your lifestyle, body language, and style, the more of these
you will get. It’s when a woman places herself conspicuously near
you when she doesn’t have to. For instance, let’s say you’re
sitting on a bus and an attractive woman gets on. The entire bus is
empty, yet she comes over and sits across from you. This could mean
she wants you to talk to her. Some other examples are when a woman
comes and stands near you in a store or shop looking at nothing in
particular for a long amount of time.
Conversation Signals
- Excessive Smiling/Laughing: This is subjective and
will require some judgment, but sometimes you will notice one girl
smiling and laughing a lot more than others when you speak. Chances
are she likes you.
- Flipping or Playing with Her Hair: Classic signal
of flirtation and often done unconsciously.
- Eyes Dilate: Studies have shown our eyes dilate
when we look at someone we’re attracted to. Hard to notice,
especially in some nighttime scenario. But this gives her eyes a
much bigger and wider look than normal, what you may call “big doe
eyes.”
- Standing Closer to You Than Normal:
self-explanatory. Pay attention to where she positions herself
while talking to you. If it’s slightly within your bubble of
personal space that probably indicates she’s interested in getting
physical with you.
- Excessive Eye Contact: Same as excessive smiling.
If she’s locked onto your gaze during a conversation, that means
she’s very interested in what you have to say. Most people break
eye contact very often, especially with people they just met. If
she doesn’t, that means she’s interested in you.
- Prioritizes You: Another very subjective one. This
can be very subtle. But it’s when her actions subtly show you that
she prioritizes you over interacting with others. The classic
example here is if you meet a girl at a bar and her friends come
over and try to talk to her and she ignores her friends. Most
women, if they don’t like you, will drop you like a hot potato when
their friends come around. But if she ignores her friends or stays
with you, that’s a clear indication that she likes you.
Escalation Signals
- Isolates Herself with You: Oftentimes the most
overt advances a woman will make won’t be in actually making a move
(that’s your job), but they’ll actively work to put you in the
easiest situation possible. Let’s say I’ve been hanging out with a
woman at a small party for most of the night and she suddenly she
says, “let’s take a walk around the block, it’s noisy in here,”
she’s purposely isolating herself with me as much as possible. This
typically means she wants to be kissed.
- Ditches Her Friends For You: Goes along with the
above; it takes a lot for a woman to leave her friends behind for a
guy, especially one she’s only known for a few hours or one night.
If she does this, take it as a bright green light.
- Touches You: If she starts putting her hands on
your arms or legs or is demonstrating (or reciprocating) any of the
touching I described in the previous section, this is a clear
signal: she is sexually interested in you and wants to be
kissed.
When To Go For the Kiss
When it comes to kissing a woman, there’s an
old adage amongst dating coaches: if you think you can kiss her,
you probably could have ten minutes ago. We men are horrible at
gauging a woman’s sexual desire and when she’s ready to move things
forward.
So, in general, it’s safe to assume that
anytime you think you could kiss her, you probably already could
have. Too many guys get hung up looking for “sign” after “sign”
when women have been giving them signals all night. Think of it
this way: it’s much better to try and kiss her and get rejected
than to go the whole night without making a move and never knowing
what would have been.
So the rule of thumb is, when in doubt, go
for it.
If you go in for the kiss and she turns her
head or doesn’t reciprocate, pull back and ask her how she’s
feeling, if she likes you or if you’re moving too fast. Listen to
her response, often women will want to kiss you but there’s
something that’s worrying them or upsetting them or making them
self-conscious. The best way to deal with this is through
vulnerability and simply asking her to be honest with whatever the
issue is.
There are some women who don’t kiss in public
places. They feel like it’s in bad taste and poor form. No matter
how much they like you, they won’t do it.
The same goes if she’s in front of a bunch of
people she knows. If she’s standing right next to four of her
co-workers, she’s probably not going to feel comfortable making out
with you. Try moving her somewhere more private.
Some notes on kissing well:
- Don’t slobber all over her face.
- Don’t jam your tongue down her throat.
Heavy tongue has its place, but it’s usually in the bedroom when
you guys are naked.
- Don’t peck her like she’s your
grandmother.
- Don’t shove your face into hers or apply
too much pressure. Kisses are sensual. Imagine you’re massaging her
lips with yours.
A lot of kissing revolves around how you use
your hands as well. Your hands should be roaming her body gently,
caressing her back, gently holding her neck, pulling her hips into
yours. One of my favorite things to do while making out with a girl
is to grab her belt loops on her pants and pull her hips into
mine.
Don’t get ahead of yourself when you’re
kissing. Too many men start making out with a woman and then
immediately go into “OK, LET’S FUCK” mode where they practically
start molesting her wherever they are and devouring her face.
Cool it. Kissing is simply the gateway to
greater and deeper intimacy. Enjoy it, play with it, relax into
it.
Moving Forward and Consent
So you’ve kissed her. Now what?
Assuming you’re in a discrete place, you’ve
both gotten to know each other, and you’re both “fuck yes” about
going further, then it’s time to escalate things towards sex.
Usually, the place to touch a woman that
indicates you’re ready for sex and that isn’t acceptable unless she
is as well are her breasts. If your hands find your way to them and
she’s into it, then this is usually an indication that things are
going to go further.
But believe it or not, women don’t just want
to drop their pants and screw right there on the spot. Whereas men
are like a microwave that you just press a button and the food is
ready to go, women are like an oven. They need to be warmed up,
pre-heated even. Remember, female arousal is primarily
psychological. Therefore, there needs to be a sense of build-up to
sex. You don’t just go from kissing to screwing (some women do, but
typically not). Usually, you need to build up from light touching,
to kissing, to kissing plus roaming hands, to some clothes off and
more touching, and so on.
Women will often object at this point and say
they just want to mess around and not have sex itself. The correct
answer to any objection is always, “That’s fine. We’ll do whatever
you’re comfortable doing.” The point is to have an enjoyable
experience, not to get more notches on your bedpost.
Yes, women often say, “We’re not going to
have sex tonight,” and then go ahead and have sex. And that’s fine
too. Just accept that these things are often fluid and both you and
her can opt in or opt out at any time without shame or
judgment.
A quick note about rape because unfortunately
I have to put something in here: remember, our general guideline
here is that we continue until a woman makes us stop. This means
she physically stops you — i.e., moves your hands off of her, moves
away from you, puts her clothes back on, etc. — or clearly and
verbally says, “STOP!” or “NO!”
If she’s incapacitated to the point (drunk,
drugs, etc.) where she probably couldn’t opt out or make a clear
decision, then you should stop. End of story.
Physicality is something you have to practice
and become comfortable at. Every man develops his own style and
personality to how he likes to touch, where he likes to touch, how
he likes to move things forward. And as you develop your own style
of physicality, you will begin to get a sense for when women are
comfortable with what. The important thing is to see sex as not
something you are earning or taking from a woman, but rather
something you two are participating in together. It’s a team
effort. Because, believe it or not, women want sex too. They want
wild, passionate, crazy sex, just like you do.
Sex
Oh my God bro, you’re totally going to get
laid tonight!
No, seriously. Once you’ve got some clothes
off and you’re both on a bed, a couch, the bathroom floor — or
wherever you plan on doing the dirty — you’ve now entered the realm
of foreplay. Sadly, men overlook foreplay because we’re just too
damn excited about getting our dicks wet. The more foreplay there
is, the hotter your woman’s going to be, the better sex she’s going
to have, which means the better sex you’ll have (this is a team
sport, remember?)
A good place to start is by sucking and
massaging her bare breasts. Some girls who like it rougher like it
when you gently bite on their nipples, but be careful, not every
girl is into that.


From there, you should at least finger her or
rub her clitoris. Feel how wet she is. If she’s wet, then slowly
keep moving things forward. If she’s dry then slow down and take
your time. She needs more time to get warmed up.
If you enjoy giving girls oral sex, this is
an excellent time to do that as well. If you give good oral sex,
most girls won’t be able to resist the urge to have sex then and
there (some will even grab you and make you do it).
The most important thing to keep in mind
about foreplay is the concept of teasing or expectation. As you do
the things talked about above, don’t just rush into them and devour
her. That can be cool sometimes, but in general, you want to take
things slow, create a drawn-out and sensual experience. Girls love
to be teased. For instance, instead of just shoving your finger
inside her and going at it, trying lightly touching her pussy with
your fingertips for a few seconds. She’ll go crazy and want you
inside her more than ever.
Instead of just giving her oral sex, start
off slow by kissing the inside of her thighs, inching closer and
closer. Create expectation. Make her yearn for whatever you’re
about to do to her. Stuff like this drives girls crazy and makes
them incredibly horny. If you do this well and repeatedly, you’ll
often get girls pushing you down and forcing you to
have sex. The expectation is too much. They have to have it. Right
then and there.
When it comes to sex, more important than any
physical technique — some cool angle or position or whatever — is
being dominant. Sexual gratification for women is far more
psychological than it is physical, whereas for men it’s mostly
physical. A large component of this psychological satisfaction
comes from being dominated and surrendering control. Women like to
feel like you have the power and the control in the bedroom. They
want you to be assertive and strong with what you want. So how do
you become dominant in bed?
1. Be loud. Make noise. Grunt. Breathe hard. Women
love this because it makes them feel like they can be loud. And
when they’re loud they get off easier and more often.
2. Talk dirty. Tell her how sexy she is. Tell her
what you’re going to do to her before you do it. Call her a dirty
girl and a horny slut. This may be outside of your comfort zone,
but realize that in the bedroom the rules change and logic goes out
the window.
3. Get physical. Spank her. Pull her hair. Hold her
down with one hand. When you change positions, literally pick her
up and move her yourself.
4. Don’t ever ask, “Is this OK? Do you want to do
X?” Just do it and stop later if she doesn’t like it and apologize.
Nothing turns a girl off faster than a guy who defers to her too
much while having sex. Take control. Do what turns you on and that
will then turn her on.
The most important habit to develop, by far,
is to talk and be expressive in the bedroom. There has to be an
open forum of communication when you sleep with a woman, especially
the first few times you’re together. Sex is always somewhat awkward
the first time you’re with a new person. Everybody engages in
different practices, habits and prefers different things. It takes
a while to learn each other’s tendencies and adapt to one another’s
likes and dislikes.
This requires you to have a sense of humor in
the bedroom. Goofy and weird moments are going to happen in the
sack and most people are at their most insecure when they’re naked
and lying under someone they just met a week ago.
Have a sense of humor. Be understanding.
Relax.
One of my favorite jokes in the bedroom, when
stuff goes awry, is, “They make it look so easy in the movies.” If
you can get a girl to crack up, she’ll forget she’s naked, forget
she’s in a strange position and forget that you just screwed up and
just be with you, laughing with you.
Also, be honest. If you don’t like the way
she gives a blowjob, tell her and then tell her how you do like it.
But also, be honest with the compliments. Tell her she’s beautiful
naked. Tell her you love how she rides you. Tell her she looks sexy
in that position.
Be open and honest. Communicate. The most
important factor for good sex is how comfortable the two people are
around each other. (This is another argument for practicing
vulnerability, by the way.)
A lot of men feel anxious around sexuality
and actually get nervous once they know they’re going to have it.
But if you bring up sexual anxiety, almost every guy will laugh and
say, “Must suck for that guy,” as if they don’t have any. The
rotten truth is that most of us have some form of it or another.
There are a variety of causes for sexual anxiety, but the most
common are:
- Inexperience
- Strict religious and/or cultural upbringing
- Negative past sexual experiences
- Past emotional trauma
- Low self-esteem
Ultimately, the causes of sexual anxiety are
directly related to other forms of anxiety: lack of confidence,
high investment in others, shame, and a fear of vulnerability.
There are two symptoms, and you either have
one or the other. You either cum way too fast (less than a minute
or two) or you either can’t get hard or you can’t keep it hard.
But that doesn’t make sense. How can two
completely opposite phenomena be caused by the same thing?
It’s basically a permutation of the “fight or
flight” response. The idea is that when you become nervous and
adrenaline is released, your body wants to get itself into a
protected and safe position as soon as possible. One way to do this
is to ejaculate immediately. The other is to lose your erection
entirely.
Either way, these problems suck. I’m not sure
which one’s worse. But we have ways to combat this problem.
If you finish way too quickly, try finding a
thicker condom. They actually make condoms now that purposely numb
your penis so that you can last longer. Try masturbating a few
hours before you expect to have sex.
If you have trouble getting it up or keeping
it up, get pills. Seriously, there are herbal supplements that you
can buy over the counter that act similarly to Viagra. They make
you hard as an ox and able to go multiple times. Take a couple
before you get intimate with a girl and you shouldn’t have any
problems keeping it at attention.
But these remedies are merely Band-Aid
solutions for a larger problem.
The larger problem is not being completely
comfortable with your sexuality and having sex. It’s once again a
vulnerability issue. This problem reaches much deeper and lurks
within our subconscious. The most obvious solution is to simply
have as much sex as possible. Getting a steady girlfriend is the
best way to do this.
Unfortunately, if you want to stay single,
this will take a lot of time and effort. And you have to deal with
a lot of demoralizing failures. Try taking it slow with the girl
once you know you’re going to have sex with her.
Think of it as having to make yourself
more secure and comfortable around her until you’re able to have
sex. I know it sounds lame, but it’s true. Slow things down, enjoy
the foreplay more, and don’t pressure yourself to get to it until
you’re good and ready.
Practice closing your eyes and relaxing when
you know you’ll be having sex with her. If you have trouble with
getting too excited, think about something non-sexual like baseball
or video games. If you have trouble getting it up, relax and just
look at her and think about how sexy she is.
If you feel that you have some sort of
emotional trauma in your past or were raised in a seriously
sexually repressed environment, consider seeking counseling or
therapy.
Regardless, once you’ve reached this point,
you’ve reached the point of maximum vulnerability with one person.
Typically, women become more invested after sex and men become less
invested after sex. The power dynamic in most couples will switch
at this point. The power of choice that the woman had (whether to
have sex or not) now usually switches over to the man (whether to
commit or not). If this power dynamic doesn’t switch, it’s usually
a sign of neediness in the man, and the attraction will not
last.


Vulnerability need not be confused with
commitment or attachment. It’s still possible to experience an
intense and powerful emotional connection with a woman and never
desire long-term commitment with one another.
But at the same time, this sort of
vulnerability and intimacy is often the starting point of an
attachment within most of us that will never go away. To this day,
women I have slept with exist within a separate category of
friendship and loyalty in my mind, even if I didn’t end up dating
them.
While intimacy, romance, and intense
emotional connection are fantastic and in many ways intoxicating,
like a drug and even possibly addictive, true, long-lasting
emotional connection can only come through submitting to long-term
commitment. But that is a topic for another book.