Non-Neediness


A man's attractiveness is inversely
proportional to how needy he is. The less needy he is, the more
attractive he will be to women on average. The needier he is, the
less attractive he will be to women on average.
Neediness is when a man places a higher
priority on others’ perceptions of him than his perception of
himself. A needy man’s actions and words will therefore be
primarily motivated by impressing and winning approval from others.
Non-neediness is when a man places a higher priority on his own
perception of himself than the perceptions of others. A non-needy
man’s actions and words will therefore be primarily motivated by
embodying his own values and desires.
Neediness, therefore, infiltrates all
behaviors because it is what inspires and instigates all behaviors.
A lack of neediness also infiltrates all behaviors for the same
reason. Because it underlies all of your actions and words, to be
non-needy is to be more attractive, in every way. It defines and
resonates in everything you say and do, the way you stand, the way
you smile, the jokes you tell, the people you associate with, the
car you drive, the wine you drink, the jacket you wear.
When people say vague things like, “I like
the way he carries himself,” or “you just need to believe in
yourself,” or, “he just has ‘it’, whatever ‘it’ is,” they are
referring to a man’s lack of neediness. It exudes from him in
everything he does. Paradoxically, a man’s lack of need for
attention and admiration is itself a magnet for attention
and admiration. A man’s comfort and acceptance of the possibility
that some people will not like him makes people like him even more.
A man’s respect for differing opinions makes those around him want
to agree with him more.
A needy man is constantly investing in the
perceptions others have in him. He is being extra nice and friendly
when he doesn’t want to be because he believes he must do this to
be liked and loved. He is buying a fancy watch and season tickets
to the local sports team so that he will be admired and loved. He
is coming up with fake compliments or pretending to be a bad ass
because he thinks it will get him attention and love.
A non-needy man may still do these behaviors
— he may still buy the season tickets or make the jokes. But his
intentions are different. Whereas a needy man says and does
these things for approval, the non-needy man does them simply for
the pleasure of doing. The needy man tries to control what others
think and feel more than what he thinks and feels himself. The
non-needy man is more concerned with controlling his own thoughts
and feelings rather than the thoughts and feelings of others. A
needy man will be more invested in the woman he is with than in
himself – he will be more concerned about her opinion, about
him, about the weather, about everything other than what he
actually thinks and feels. A non-needy man will be more invested in
himself than the woman he’s with.
By investment, I mean the degree to
which you sacrifice/alter your own thoughts, feelings, and
motivations for someone else. By less I mean that as a man,
you should not be willing to sacrifice your thoughts, feelings, and
motivations for someone else more than they sacrifice theirs for
you.
That may sound cold, un-PC, and yes, it made
me squirm a little bit when I first realized it. But it’s true.
Think about it, for the majority of human
history, men had few material possessions by which women would
judge their status. Back in the caveman days, there were no outdoor
pools and tax returns. They didn’t have brand name sandals and
expensive haircuts. At most, one man had a little bit more meat to
share than the next guy.
Therefore, for the majority of human history,
women watched men’s behavior. Ask yourself what kind of behavior
would indicate to a woman that a man is high status and fit to
raise her children? These are the men who would be sexually
selected over the course of hundreds of thousands of years.
Would it be a man who defers to all of the
other men around him, who begs the women to be with him, who can’t
stand up for himself and whose emotions are dictated by those
around him? Or would it be the man who controls his own destiny, is
unfazed by the threats others may pose to him and who shrugs it off
if he pursues a woman and she has no interest in him?
The second man indicates a man of status. If
you’re at the top of the food chain, you have no reason to be
inhibited or to defer to others (unless you want to). If you’re at
the bottom of the food chain, your entire life will revolve around
deferring to others.
The high-status man displays non-neediness.
The low-status man displays neediness.
Neediness is not consciously calculated by
women or people in general. I guarantee you will not see women
walking around with neediness scorecards.
Neediness is a feeling. It’s intuited by
women. It’s instinctual. It’s the gag reflex she has when a guy
calls her twelve too many times. It’s the distaste she has when he
seems to laugh a little too hard at her jokes. It’s the annoyance
she has when he seems to make every decision for her rather than
letting her fend for herself.
Women unconsciously detect neediness by
sensing the intentions behind a man’s behavior and words. It’s why
women can often become turned off at the most innocuous moment or
by the most unimportant statement. Consciously, the action or
statement may seem harmless, but unconsciously, it conveyed
everything they need to know about your status and that is this:
you base your actions on a constant need for approval.
As you are probably aware, women can be needy
as well. And although neediness is a turn-off for most men, it’s
not the complete deal breaker that it is for women.
To most women, a man with no neediness is
like a woman with perfect tits and a gorgeously sculpted ass. To a
woman, a man with a lot of neediness is like having the worst
breath and missing teeth.
It’s important to note that non-neediness
doesn’t mean you should only care about yourself. This is
narcissism, and although it might get you laid, it is not
attractive and will result in dysfunctional relationships.
When you are attracted to a woman, you
should be affected by her, you should be invested in
her. That’s the whole fun of it! That’s the reason we have
relationships in the first place, to be touched and moved by
others. The important point here is how we prioritize other
people’s perceptions versus our own. Which is more important? Hers
or yours?
Highly needy men will end up in relationships
sometimes, but only with highly needy women. The highly needy man
is constantly working to earn a woman’s approval, and a highly
needy woman is constantly in need of a man’s approval. So the two
conspire together, usually with one creating drama/emotional
meltdowns and the other one endlessly fixing it. This relationship
is toxic and can harm each person’s self-worth.
Narcissistic men, or men who only care
about themselves, will end up in relationships sometimes, but only
with narcissistic and shallow women. Both the narcissistic man and
woman will view each other merely as ornaments to adorn their
self-absorbed lives. These relationships also are toxic. And these
relationships also often end poorly.
Now all this stuff sounds nice. But let’s put
this into concrete, real-world terms. Here are a couple
examples.
James is a nice guy. But he tends to be needy
in his relationships and has what we would call a high level of
investment with any woman that he meets.
Whenever he dates a woman, he will rearrange
his entire schedule at her whim. He will buy her gifts and spend
most of his paycheck on the nicest dinners for her. He’ll forgo
plans with his guy friends and if the woman he dates gets angry,
he’ll sit patiently and listen to her vent all of her frustrations
to him, agreeing with her constantly in a futile desperation that
she may feel better. Even when he feels that she’s being irrational
or treating him unfairly, he won’t say anything because he doesn’t
want her to be upset with him.
As a result, despite caring for him, James’s
girlfriends rarely respect him. And sooner or later — usually
sooner — they dump him. When James gets dumped, he becomes
distraught and depressed. He’s often inconsolable and drinks too
much. Usually, he doesn’t feel better again until he meets another
woman and the entire cycle repeats itself.
Then there’s Jeff. Jeff has been successful
with women for his entire life and has a very low level of
investment in them until he’s gotten to know them well. Jeff enjoys
going out with his friends and pays no attention to whether the
women around him approve of him or not. At times, he says something
weird or gets rejected, but it doesn’t bother him.
But other times girls become quite attracted
to Jeff. When Jeff notices, if he finds them attractive, he’ll take
their number and ask them out. When he takes them out, he takes
them to the park down the street from his flat. He then sits there
and chats with them for a while and if he doesn’t like them, he’ll
excuse himself and leave. If he does like them, he might take them
to get ice cream or check out a show with him. If at any point she
decides she doesn’t like him and leaves, Jeff doesn’t really mind.
He figures that he wouldn’t have been happy with her anyway, so why
change himself to please her?
Jeff ends up sleeping with a lot of women.
His phone is constantly ringing with texts from them, but he only
answers them when he has time or feels like it. He’s never rude or
nasty to them. But he only makes time for the ones he genuinely
enjoys spending time with.
James has a high level of emotional
investment in the women he meets and dates. He’s not confident. He
is needy. He immediately enslaves what little of his identity he’s
aware of to what he believes will make women like him.
Jeff has a low level of investment. He’s
content with his life and proud of who he is. He is confident and
non-needy. If a woman doesn’t appreciate that, then he figures he’s
better off without her.
Women, as if with a sixth sense, detect
Jeff’s lower level of emotional investment because it informs all
of his decisions and behaviors. Jeff is a high self-esteem
individual who takes care of himself and is therefore able to be
himself around others. James is not. Within moments of speaking to
Jeff, and often even before speaking to him, women sense that not
only does he have a strong sense of identity, he’s also unwilling
to compromise that identity for her. This sub-communicates his high
status to them and elicits attraction. How Jeff communicates this
will be discussed later in the book.
Ask women and they will tell you that they
can immediately tell if a man’s “got it,” or if he doesn’t. They
don’t know what “it” is, but they know if he has it or not. That
“it” that they intuitively know in their gut the second they see
him walk, hear him talk, or look him in the eye is his level of
investment relative her and, therefore, his lack of neediness.
If this all seems impractical so far, don’t
worry. The majority of this book is based on how to get “it” and
how to convey “it” with women immediately, regardless of what you
actually say or do.
The Seduction Process
Biologically, women have a lot more to lose
than men when it comes to sex. As a result, they’ve had incentives
to (usually) be pickier in choosing their sexual partners. Men, on
the other hand, have historically had fewer repercussions for
promiscuity and, from a biological point of view, even gain some
advantages by being promiscuous.
Whether it’s biological or cultural or some
mixture of both, the fact is that female sexual attraction is based
largely in feeling comfortable and secure with a man she meets.
Women have evolved a sexuality that is more psychological than
physical, and that psychological need is rooted in the need for
security and connection.
This is why status is based on behavior and
not simply assets. A man who is rich in assets has greater
potential to make a woman feel secure and comfortable, but if his
behavior implies that he won’t, then she won’t be attracted to him.
A physically fit man will imply greater fitness for her children,
but again, if his behavior implies he will be incapable or
incompetent in raising them, then she will not be attracted to
him.
Because men value sex more than women at the
beginning of a relationship, and sexual opportunities are scarcer
for men than women, women tend to be less invested and more
confident early in on the interaction. When a man approaches her
and induces her to become as invested in him as he is in
her, this is the process of seduction. Sex occurs as a natural
side effect of this process.
Seduction is the process by which a man
induces a woman to become as invested in him as he is in her.
There are two ways for seduction to happen:
1) a man creates the perception that he is far less invested in her
than he actually is (neediness disguised as non-neediness), and 2)
a man actually is less invested in her (genuine non-neediness).
The first method (a man giving false
impressions) occurs through what I call “performance.” The vast
majority of the dating advice out there for men (and women) is
performance-based advice — say this, act like this, don’t call her
back right away, pretend you don’t like her, make these jokes,
etc.
The second method (a man demonstrating less
investment) is a passive process that he does within himself and
that permeates every aspect of his behavior over the long-term.
There’s nothing to learn or memorize. There is nothing to practice
or study. It only requires one to move his yardstick for success
from external goals (more dates, more sex) to internal goals
(better relationships, more emotional fulfillment, overall
happiness). This book will lay out how this internal process occurs
and how to achieve it in yourself.
Performance-based dating advice technically
“works.” It’s just not fulfilling. You’re not actually solving the
problem (your neediness); you're just covering it up. A man who
becomes successful through a series of performance-based behaviors
may have sex, but he is setting himself up for terrible and
unfulfilling relationships with other needy women.
Let me take you through a few real-life
examples of seduction and look at the various factors going on in
each one from a neediness/investment point of view. These examples
are real, but identities have been changed and minor details
altered.
When Ryan was in college, he was a leading
member of his fraternity. He was in charge of organizing his
house’s parties. He was a gregarious guy and liked by most people.
At one of these parties, he met Jane. Jane took an immediate liking
to Ryan and the two began dating. Ryan would organize and throw his
parties, Jane would come and bring her friends. They shared
stories, experiences and interests. The rest of college went on
like this.
After they graduated, Ryan took a job at a
bank. Jane got involved in a local charity. Ryan’s social network
disappeared and his long hours at work killed any desire for him to
go out and make new friends. He began to spend more and more time
with Jane. They usually just watched movies and shared a bottle of
wine.
As time went on, Jane became more and more
involved in her charity events and began traveling to help with
fundraisers. Ryan would spend this time alone watching TV or maybe
grabbing a beer with one of his old buddies, but it wasn’t the
same. After another year, Ryan would openly complain to Jane about
her trips. Jane obviously sympathized with Ryan, but she felt
pressured and resented him for it. They began to fight more often.
Ryan gained weight. Jane spent more time working away from
home.
Ryan decided to plan a lavish trip for the
two of them to the Caribbean. He could use the much-needed time
away from work, and it would infuse their relationship with the
excitement and passion that it sorely needed. The trip returned the
romance to their relationship briefly. But upon returning home,
reality began to set in once again. Within a few months it was back
to business as usual: him overworked and irritable, her distancing
herself and traveling.
Ryan began talking about marriage. Jane was
hesitant. She stated that her job was getting busier and she didn’t
know how much she’d be around to plan a wedding. Ryan had been
saving much of his money to buy her a ring. Jane lamented that they
were still young and hadn’t really experienced much of life yet.
Secretly, in the back of her mind, she couldn’t shake the feeling
that Ryan was terrified of just that: experiencing life, and
marrying her was just another way for him to escape it.
Dejected, a few weeks later Ryan began to
complain that Jane spent too much time with her friends and at
work. Indeed, Jane had been staying at work until way into the
night, even on days when she didn’t have to. Ryan began pressuring
Jane to move in together, but again she resisted, this time
fervently. Ryan exploded, he had been giving up everything for her
the past few years and she had been nothing but ungrateful. She
retorted that Ryan had been suffocating her with his demands for
attention and affection. Jane dumped him on the spot.
There’s a good chance the above story sounds
familiar to you. You or one of your friends or family members have
probably gone through the same process as Ryan: meet girl in a
situation of low emotional investment and low neediness, entered
relationship with said girl, gradually invested more and more while
letting the rest of your personal life slip away, until girl leaves
you and dates some other guy who is less invested than she is
again.
Here’s another story that may sound familiar
to you.
Daniel is 24 years old and trying to get over
a three-year dry spell. It’s the first time he’s pursued women
since his only girlfriend dumped him three years ago.
Daniel goes out to a bar one night and
approaches Stacy. Daniel approaches her with what seems like an
innocuous question about drunk guys getting in fights. She responds
and he follows it up with a number of quirky lines to soon get her
laughing.
These are lines and questions Daniel learned
from reading a pick up book on women. Daniel has been practicing
the tactics for a while and has recently become proficient at using
them. After facing countless rejections, he’s finally able to get
girls’ phone numbers and even a few dates.
He continues to talk to Stacy throughout the
night about pre-ordained topics he’s comfortable with. He’s able to
punctuate each lull with tried and tested jokes he’s used dozens of
times. Every time, Stacy laughs on cue. He touches her on the arm
just like he read to do, and she touches him back. She’s
interested.
A week later, after some fun texting, Stacy
meets up with Daniel for a date. Once again, Daniel executes
everything he’s learned: stick to topics about her passions, move
her from venue to venue, never sits across from her but next to
her, use a planned excuse to get her back to his place, etc.
There are hiccups along the way, but it all
more or less works. Stacy seems genuinely attracted and when Daniel
finally works up the nerve to kiss her, she kisses back
enthusiastically.
Daniel is ecstatic. He feels like months of
hard work have finally paid off.
The second date goes similarly. Daniel
manages to get Stacy back to his apartment where, fumbling through
his excitement, he has sex with her.
Daniel is on cloud nine, delirious with joy
and drunk on validation. He jumps online to talk to his best friend
and tell him all of the clever lines he said and how much she likes
him.
Little does Daniel realize that it wasn’t his
lines and tricks that Stacy fell for, it was the endearing way he
laughed at himself whenever he was self-conscious. She thought it
was cute and it reminded her of her first boyfriend. She also was
in a lonely stretch of her life and wanted to feel needed by
someone and the fact that Daniel was working so hard for her
approval flattered her and made her feel a little less alone.
At least for a little while.
Daniel and Stacy see each other a few more
times over the following weeks, but something changes. Since he’s
already had sex with her, Daniel stops running his lines and
tactics that he learned. He slowly reverts back to his normal self,
his needy self: desperate for attention and approval.
It begins subtly with him agreeing with
everything she says, followed by a sudden inability to come up with
new and interesting topics of conversation. It turns out he spends
most of his time watching TV and playing video games, and there’s
not a whole lot to talk about on that front. What used to be
vibrant and hilarious bantering has now turned into Stacy showing
up, saying whatever she wants and Daniel more or less agreeing with
her until it’s time to have sex — which is now bad, uninteresting
sex.
But Stacy is changing too. She’s starting to
realize that she used sex as a way to make herself feel less lonely
and that perhaps she was way too invested in a guy she actually
didn’t have anything in common with. But rather than recognize that
she made a mistake, she continues to see Daniel out of guilt and
for fear of feeling like a slut.
One day, Daniel texts Stacy about meeting up
with him that weekend. She was busy studying for a test that night
and didn’t reply. Stacy was actually busy, she tells
herself. What she doesn’t admit to herself is that she could have
made time if she wanted.
Daniel begins to get insecure about why
Stacy’s not responding. He gets online and asks his friend for
advice. His friend says that he needs to text her something really
crazy to get her to pay attention and like him again.
The next day, after her test, Stacy sees her
phone and notices four new texts from Daniel. The first one is
casual, but each one gets progressively weirder and more
nonsensical. Stacy is turned off — it’s that neediness rearing its
ugly head again. But again, out of guilt and unsure of how to end
things due to her own neediness, she decides to pretend the texts
didn’t happen and agrees to meet Daniel that weekend, even though
at this point, it feels more like an obligation and not something
she’s excited to do.
But Daniel is not so easily fooled. He’s not
about to reward Stacy’s “bad behavior” by immediately hanging out
with her. He was taught in his pick up books to never let the girl
set the terms of the relationship. So he waits a few hours and then
texts Stacy that she’s too late and he’s already made other plans
with other people. She finds this strange. Daniel had texted her
four times, but truthfully she feels somewhat relieved. She can
move on with her life.
The following week Daniel texts Stacy and
coldly insinuates that he’s ready to see her now, if she’s willing
to work for it. The condescension and disrespectful tone pisses
Stacy off and she doesn’t respond.
Two days later Daniel, drunk and confused
about why Stacy doesn’t want to see him anymore, sends a sappy text
saying that he really likes her and really wants to see her again
and doesn’t know why she doesn’t like him anymore.
Completely confused and turned off, Stacy
replies that he’s a nice guy but she just wants to be friends, even
though she has no intention of ever seeing him again.
I can tell you that I’ve seen both of these
stories play out over and over and over again, in hundreds of
different forms between hundreds of different people.
Guy meets girl. Guy shows less investment in
girl than himself, sex and/or relationship occurs, guy becomes more
invested in girl than himself, sex stops and/or relationship falls
apart.
The first story is an example of why it’s
important to continue to invest in oneself even as life changes
occur and the relationship goes on. It’s the only long-term
solution to keep long-term relationships stable and happy.
Ryan’s relationship with Jane failed because
after he graduated from college, he lost and never regained the
great aspects of his identity that made him so attractive to Jane
in the first place — his social network, his joy and spontaneity,
the cool group activities he planned. As he got cornered into a job
he hated and lost his social circle, he began leaning on her more
and more to define his identity for himself. He invested less in
himself and more and more in her.
Meanwhile, Jane flourished after graduation,
quickly falling into a job she was passionate about and good at.
She made new friends and began traveling and having new experiences
on her own. As Jane became less invested in Ryan for her identity,
Ryan became more invested in Jane, growing needier and needier.
Eventually, the dynamic of investment shifted and the relationship
toppled over.
Daniel’s experience was different. Daniel’s
story is a quintessential example of why pick up lines, routines,
value tactics and the like are only short-term solutions. Daniel
was needy and highly-invested in Stacy’s affection from the start.
All Daniel did was use techniques and lines to trick Stacy into
thinking he was far more confident and less invested than he
actually was.
And it worked, for a bit. But the irony here
is that what attracted her the most was not Daniel’s lines, but the
authenticity of him bumbling through them to impress her. Stacy
found it endearing and genuine and was in an unconfident place
herself at the time. She was in a place in her life where she
wanted to feel needed and powerful. She also found the
idiosyncrasies of his personality to be cute, as they reminded her
of her first boyfriend. So she slept with him.
But as Daniel’s lines and techniques ran out,
the true level of investment became more and more clear. Daniel’s
behavior became erratic and it disgusted Stacy, causing her to cut
him off in some ugly text exchanges.
But a lot of men who follow this type of
dating advice don’t even make it that far. They may conjure the
impression of status for only an hour or even a few minutes before
they falter. Such are the stresses of performance.
Learning techniques and pick up lines without
doing genuine, identity-level work in order to permanently decrease
your neediness ends up only being a band-aid solution. It provides
a short, temporary relief from an otherwise permanent problem. It
causes more stress. And it ultimately makes us feel worse about
ourselves.
Overcoming neediness is not about learning
what to say or new things to do. Overcoming your neediness comes
through a change in your mindset, your self-perception, and your
self-respect. It's as simple as just changing your mind about
women.
Take a moment to consider…
…That before meeting a woman, instead of
worrying whether or not she will like you, you could wonder if you
will like her.
…That instead of feeling the need to impress
her, you could wonder if she impresses you.
…That instead of sitting there silently
wondering what to say next to make her like you, you could sit
there silently wondering what she will say to make you like
her.
…That instead of waiting around for her to
call, you could find something else to do while she waits for your
call.
…That instead of worrying if you’re tall
enough or good-looking enough or skinny enough, you could decide
whether they’re too superficial to recognize your great
qualities.
…That instead of trying to come up with the
perfect date, you could decide that a woman who really likes you
for you doesn’t need a perfect date.
…That instead of looking for a conversation
she’ll enjoy, you could talk about something you enjoy and see if
she takes interest.
…That instead of looking for her approval,
you could decide whether or not to give yours.
…That instead of getting upset about why she
doesn’t want to be with you, you could decide that it means you
probably wouldn’t want to be with her.
This may all sound a bit selfish. But, in
fact, it’s called having strong boundaries and high
self-esteem. It’s called being non-needy and an attractive man.
Only making time for people who make time for
you. Only being interested in dating people who are interested in
dating you. Worrying about what will make you happy instead of what
will make someone else happy. Looking for a person who meets your
needs instead of trying to always meet theirs. Changing yourself to
become who you want to be, not what you think women want you
to be.
Because, ironically, that is what
women want you to be: a man who wants to be who he wants to
be.
Women are attracted to a man they can
respect, to a man they can trust. If you’re constantly looking for
approval for what to say and how to feel, how could anyone respect
or trust you?
You are what attracts (or
repels) others — not the words, not the strategies. If you aren’t
happy with the results you get, then it’s time
to improve you.
I don’t care how hot she is. Is she good
enough for you? Does she have integrity? Standards? Is she smart,
personable, caring? Are you ready to leave on a dime if she offends
you or breaks your trust?
If not, that’s probably why you’re not with
her in first place.
The only real dating advice is
self-improvement. Work on yourself. Conquer your anxieties.
Resolve your shame. Take care of yourself and those who are
important to you.
Love yourself. Otherwise no, one else
will.
Narcissism and Overcompensation
When a man has spent his entire life needy
and highly invested, doing the legitimate work to transform himself
into a confident, attractive man is not easy.
To become non-needy, a man must
develop self-respect, a healthy sense of boundaries, social
competence, and healthy life habits. It’s often a painful long-term
process that entails quite a bit of introspection, questioning,
doubt, anger, frustration, lifestyle changes, and so on.
But there is a shortcut. And that
shortcut is to objectify women, to treat them as objects or
trophies to be accumulated or paraded around for others.
As I said earlier, some men try to
fake non-neediness through performance. We’ve already seen how this
ultimately fails in the long run.
But other men overcompensate. It’s
so hard for them to let go of what others think of them and to
stand up for themselves. So they go the complete opposite direction
and decide to only care about themselves. They become narcissistic
and self-serving, they view their relationships as vehicles to get
specific benefits and are unconcerned with the needs of the person
they’re with.
Needy men only know how to care
about what others want, even if it harms themselves. Non-needy men
look for that intersection where they can get both their own needs
and their partner’s needs met. Narcissistic men overcompensate and
decide to only pursue getting their own needs met.
Narcissistic men usually do this
by conjuring up all sorts of false beliefs about the inferiority or
difference of women — how women are incapable of rationality, how
they’re “hypergamous,” how they manipulate men, how women are
destined to be dominated and controlled.
It’s all bullshit, but these men
use it as a justification for their overcompensation to put them at
ease in their own self-absorption.
Men who go narcissistic act like
they’re more important than anybody else. They are aggressive,
insensitive, and demanding. They are self-serving and don’t handle
rejection or loss well. Some of these men even end up becoming
abusive.
But the narcissist’s façade is
weak and transparent. The truth is that the man’s narcissism is
wielded as a sort of shield to protect the sensitive neediness
underneath. See, narcissistic men are still desperate for the
approval of others. They’ve just taken a counterintuitive route to
getting it: their own self-aggrandizement. Whereas a needy man will
play at being meek and unimportant in order to get approval from
others, the narcissist proclaims his own greatness to get approval
from others.
When a woman becomes merely
another conquest, a number, something to treat like a trophy or a
toy, it can be extremely easy to assert yourself around them, to
prioritize your own values and beliefs over theirs, to risk
rejection around them, and to dominate any perspective they might
have — all attractive confident traits, merely expressed in
horrible ways.
Narcissism is also taught to men
as a form of dating advice. Much of the dating advice out there
advises men to be selfish, to be “alpha,” to be dominant and
aggressive and to ignore women’s objections or rejections, to
pursue what you want no matter what and take it through pure
persistence and aggression. It will justify this advice with all
sorts of explanations that women don’t actually know what they
want, that they’re just “testing” you, that they actually want it
but they can’t say it, and so on.
Narcissism is also often promoted
to men by other men growing up, especially in highly “macho”
cultures (Latin America, the Middle East, East Asian, etc.). Men
are often raised by other narcissistic men who only found their way
through relationships through self-aggrandizement and selfishness,
and so they seek to pass these traits onto their sons.
Narcissism in a relationship is
built on the idea of always being dominant or in control. It is a
nebulous mixture of selfishness, assertiveness, and domination that
is achieved not through investing more in oneself, but by
minimizing the importance of others.
This strategy is ultimately
self-sabotaging then. Narcissistic men see seduction and
relationships as another competition to be dominated and won, not
as a collaboration to be enjoyed. If the goal is to cultivate
highly enriching relationships that add to one’s life, then
minimizing the importance of those around you in order to attract
them to you makes the resulting relationships unfulfilling and
superficial.
Narcissistic men end up with
narcissistic and/or highly needy women. Narcissistic women will use
the narcissistic man to aggrandize themselves, to put themselves up
and fulfill their own egotistical goals. Needy women will tolerate
a narcissistic man’s poor treatment of them because the needy woman
is constantly in search of a feeling of greatness
herself.
And the sad thing is, it works —
not on all women, not even on most women, but it will work on women
who have no confidence, who expect to be treated like shit, and who
treat men like shit in return. Women with any self-worth will pass
up on a narcissistic man in a heartbeat. She sees right through his
macho veneer. But low self-esteem women, particularly women with
truckloads of emotional problems or a history of abuse, will gladly
throw themselves onto the narcissistic man and bring him down with
them.
So yeah, being narcissistic and
overcompensating works. But it leads to unpleasant, shallow, and
superficial interactions, constant headaches dealing with women who
you don’t actually even really like and who probably don’t even
actually like you, women regretting having sex with you, and
emotionally unstable girls who bother you constantly. It’s like
swimming in the shallow end of the pool — yeah, you’re swimming,
but it’s not nearly as rewarding as the deep end, and there’s piss
everywhere.
Narcissism comes in many varieties
but usually boils down to this: focusing on your own wants and
desires to the point of imposing them onto others. Exaggerate your
dominance and boast of your strength. Accept no wrongdoing. Admit
no faults. Blame others for your problems. Go out of your way to
make others feel smaller so that you appear bigger.
The problem with narcissism is
that it defines itself by getting what it wants from others. A man
who is narcissistic only feels non-needy if he’s dominating
somebody else and if someone else is giving him what he wants. And
in that subtle way, he is therefore more invested in others than he
is in himself. He is therefore still needy and
unattractive.
To give an example, if a non-needy
man meets a woman who rejects him or is not interested in him, he
will assume that is was either an incompatibility or that it was
just not the right situation. Either way, he will see it as the
right thing to have happened. His life will go on.
But when a narcissistic man is
rejected, he becomes angry and hurt. He blames the woman for not
seeing his greatness. He calls her stupid or selfish or shallow
because she’s not willing to give him what he – a random guy
talking to her – wants.
It’s just another form of
performance — he acts as if he’s in control, but his desperation to
be in control is due to insecurity. A non-needy man doesn’t try to
control what women feel about him. Rather he tries to control what
he feels about certain women. He understands that the world isn’t
about him and that all he can control is himself and his own
actions. He’s not bothered when things don’t go his way or when
people don’t recognize him as being amazing because he already
feels amazing himself. He doesn’t need their approval and their
disapproval doesn’t faze him from his mission.
Narcissistic men are often serial
players, guys who obsessively seek out casual sex and not only
regard the women they sleep with poorly, but treat them poorly as
well.
Let’s do another
example:
Roy was a nice guy all through
college. He was a geeky science guy but adored by all of the girls
he hung out with. Roy adored them as well, but in a sexual way.
Unfortunately, whenever Roy worked up the nerve to say something,
they always told him they just wanted to be his friend. All the
while, Roy would sit there listening to his female friends complain
about their horrible and insensitive boyfriends. All Roy could
think was, “But I care about you, I’m sensitive, and I’m right in
front of you. Why can’t you see that?”
Needless to say, Roy’s female
friends never came around. Despite all of the waiting and hoping
and placating, they always moved on to the next guy — usually a guy
they had just met.
Eventually, when Roy was 25 years
old, he landed his first girlfriend: a depressive and slightly
overweight grad student who worked in his lab. Despite her obvious
shortcomings, he was smitten with her. But his girlfriend’s
emotional instability eventually got the best of both of them.
After a turbulent year together, they broke up.
Roy’s anger boiled over. He was
sick of being walked over and kicked around. He was sick of being
ignored and hurt. His entire life, women had never paid attention
to him sexually, and the one who finally did wasn’t satisfied. Roy
decided he had had enough, that it was time to put himself first.
It was time to put his own needs first. He saw how other men had
been assholes to his female friends and slept with them, so he
decided that he would do the same.
Roy quickly found that he was
comfortable dishing out insults and teases toward the women he
talked to. It felt like vindication for a lifetime of emotional
negligence. Some women were offended, but strangely this made Roy
feel even more powerful and motivated him to go out and meet even
more women.
Soon, to Roy’s surprise, some of
these girls actually became attracted to him. He took them home and
slept with them. At first, the girls were drunk and ugly, but
slowly and surely, as Roy became more comfortable in his new player
persona, the girls became more attractive.
Some of the girls Roy slept with
were genuinely intrigued by Roy and wanted to get to know him
better. Roy would toy with these women, play phone tag with them,
use them for sex a few more times and then invent some sort of
conflict or blame her for something she didn’t do as an excuse to
not see her anymore. These women quickly got the picture that Roy
was neither stable nor an enjoyable person to spend time with, so
they moved on.
Other girls Roy slept with weren’t
as intrigued with him as they were emotionally desperate for some
sort of male validation.
Some of these women simply wanted
to be validated by having sex. In which case, Roy fucked them and
never heard from them again.
But for many others, their
neediness was deeper than that. These women desperately craved
emotional validation as well as sexual validation. They would
launch into crying fits, call Roy dozens of times over the course
of a night or show up at his apartment unannounced. The sex was
often incredible, but it was almost impossible for Roy’s own anger
and insecurities to not get sucked into the drama of these other
women. Dramatic episodes would go on for weeks or sometimes months
in a cycle of angry breakup, back to loving reunion, back to angry
breakup, over and over again, each time getting more intense. Many
of these women had experienced sexual abuse in their past.
Eventually, Roy would tire of their games and break things off
permanently, swearing to never let himself succumb to them again.
But often the next “crazy” girl would be right around the
corner.
I always tell men, if every
girl you date is unstable and crazy, that’s a reflection of
your emotional maturity
level. It’s a reflection of your
confidence or lack of confidence. It’s a
reflection of your neediness. Non-needy people don’t date needy people and
vice-versa. They can’t because there’s no attraction to begin
with.
If all of the women you attract
are needy and emotionally helpless, what does that say about
you?
Roy went from being needy to
overcompensating with narcissism. He went from worshipping women
with no respect for himself to worshipping himself with no respect
for women. The key to non-neediness is to have both: respect for
both oneself and for women.
The only permanent way to attract
and date more women and more attractive women is to become more
attractive yourself. And the way a man becomes more attractive
himself is by investing in himself, in becoming less
needy.
Permanent change to one’s
investment and neediness in one’s relationships with women is hard
and is a process that encompasses all facets of one’s life. But
it’s a worthwhile journey. As a man, it may be the most worthwhile
journey.
And the key to it is probably
something you wouldn’t expect. In fact, it’s something that most
men turn their nose up at when they hear it. The key is
vulnerability.