
Glossary


Anxiety — A general emotional state
of fear and apprehension brought on repeatedly by a certain
situation. Anxiety is conquered through Courage. See Also:
Sexual Anxiety, Social Anxiety, Courage
Arousal — The process in which
someone is sexually stimulated, physically, psychologically or
emotionally. Current research posits women are primarily aroused
through displays of sexual intent and bold behaviors. See Also:
Sexual Intent, Courage
Assortment Effect — The psychological
term for the observed tendency for men and women of similar beliefs
and self-perceptions to attract one another. For instance, a man
with low self-esteem will attract women with low self-esteem. A man
with a positive attitude towards sex will attract women with
positive attitudes towards sex. See Also: Demographics
Attractive Behavior — Confident
behavior, both in one’s everyday life, as well as direct
interactions with women. Attractive behavior is usually a result of
vulnerability, although not always. See Also: Lifestyle,
Neediness
Boundaries — The limit of interaction
and communication one finds acceptable. Boundaries can be strong or
weak based upon the person’s confidence level. For instance, John
lacks confidence and therefore lets his dates make fun of him
without saying anything. Sally has high confidence and does not
tolerate her date being 20 minutes late to pick her up. Strong
boundaries are both a cause and effect of True Confidence. Standing
up for one’s boundaries often triggers attraction and always
generates greater respect. See Also: True Confidence
Confidence — One’s belief in
themselves and their ability and competence in a certain situation.
Confidence is context-dependent. One can be confident in a
boardroom but horribly unconfident in a sexual relationship.
Confidence is often confused with self-esteem. Lack of confidence
in romantic situations is a reflection of neediness, which is a
component of low self-esteem. Confident behavior is always
attractive. See Also: Non-Neediness, Neediness,
Self-Esteem
Courage — The ability to perform an
action despite feeling fear and anxiety about doing it. See
Also: Anxiety
Creepy — To express one’s sexuality
in such a way that makes a woman uncomfortable or less secure.
Creepy behavior can happen consciously or unconsciously. See
Also: Sexual Intent, Flirting
Dating Success — Maximizing one’s
happiness with the woman/women one chooses. It is important to note
that it is NOT determined by numbers, sexual encounters,
appearances, etc., but by happiness.
Defense Mechanisms — Psychological
reactions to anxiety that cause one to avoid taking action.
Examples include blame, anger, projection, rationalizations,
apathy, etc. See Also: Anxiety, Courage
Demographics — The idea that you will
experience greater success (happiness) and efficiency by pursuing
women in areas of your life that you excel at or enjoy. For
instance, if you are a musician, then you are more likely to
experience dating success by meeting women at concerts and music
events. See Also: Assortment Effect, Lifestyle
Emotional Connection — A mutual
emotional investment between two people. This investment generates
a feeling of closeness and greater empathy. Can often trigger
arousal and sexual desire.
Finding Your Truth — A two-part
process of 1) removing behaviors which are based on receiving the
approval of others rather than your own values and 2) getting in
touch with emotions and desires which were previously unconscious.
Finding one’s truth is based on the idea that most of our behaviors
and beliefs are actually unconscious habits we picked up for the
wrong reasons throughout our lives. Getting in touch with one’s
real emotions and desires and discarding the unconfident habits and
behaviors leads one to become more vulnerable, more confident, and,
therefore, more attractive. See Also: Attractive Behavior,
Non-Neediness, Vulnerability
Flake — A specific form of rejection.
When a woman demonstrates interest or says she will see you again
and then never does.
Flirting — The demonstration of
sexual intent in a fun and playful manner. Successful flirting
makes women feel secure with your sexual intent. The opposite of
creepy. See Also: Creepy, Sexual Intent
Friction — Circumstances and causes
that prevent sexual escalation from occurring despite there being
mutual attraction. For instance, two people may be very attracted
to one another, but one is married and the other lives in another
town.
Honest Action — Removing the
separation between what one desires to do and what one actually
does. Usually involves overcoming one’s own anxieties and limiting
beliefs about what is possible.
Honest Communication — Removing the
separation between what one believes and feels and what one says.
Requires a removal of inhibitions as well as a clarity to one’s
communication.
Honest Living — Removing the
separation between the person you desire to be and the person you
actually are. Requires long-term investment and often major life
decisions/changes.
Lifestyle — A blanket term for the
quality and types of activities, interests and people one spends
the majority of their time with. Your profession, the place you
live, hobbies, friends, and weekend trips are all components of
your overall lifestyle. Your lifestyle is a reflection of your
values and self-esteem and also determines your demographics. A
lifestyle can be based upon unconfident behavior (i.e., dressing a
certain way or driving a certain car in order to impress women).
See Also: Demographics
Limiting Beliefs — Irrational beliefs
that inherently prevent one from being successful at something.
Limiting beliefs are almost always untrue and results of defense
mechanisms and a lack of courage. An example is a man who believes
that women will never be attracted to him because he’s bald so he
doesn’t even try. See Also: Defense Mechanisms, Courage
Narcissism - Men who overcompensate
for their low self-esteem and lack of confidence by imposing their
will and needs onto others unnecessarily. Narcissism is often
preoccupied with sleeping with as many women as possible.
Narcissistic behavior is often promoted within the Pick Up Artist
industry and the so-called “red pill” community. Narcissistic
behavior can come across as confident but is still low-status
behavior because it is over-invested in the perceptions of others.
Men who are narcissistic experience short-term sexual success but
long-term emotional failure. See Also: Self-Esteem,
Non-Neediness, Pick Up Artist
Neediness — Being more invested in
the opinions and perceptions of others than your opinion and
perception of yourself. Needy men end up deferring all
decision-making and behaviors to what they will believe will win
them approval from others. They will subvert their own identity and
desires for the will of others. Neediness is a defense mechanism
for social/emotional failures early in life but is a failing
strategy for intimacy in adulthood. Neediness is overcome through
investing in oneself, practicing vulnerability, and pursuing Honest
Living, Honest Action, and Honest Communication.
Non-neediness — Being more invested
in your opinion of yourself than the opinions others have of you.
Non-neediness is one component of having high self-esteem and the
root of all attractive behavior. True Confidence is achieved
through practicing vulnerability and in investing in oneself.
See Also: Confidence, Neediness, Self-Esteem
Objectification — The decision to
view women and social interactions as impersonal processes and
objects rather than people and emotional activities. Seeing women
as numbers, subjects to be studied, games to be won, etc., are all
common ways which men objectify their sexual and emotional lives.
Emotions are ignored and discouraged from being expressed.
Narcissism and Performance behaviors both encourage objectification
in order to achieve short-term success. Objectification causes
long-term emotional damage and can lead to depression and even
lower levels of self-esteem. This is the reason for the paradoxical
situation many long-time narcissistic men find themselves in: they
have many sexual partners but find themselves to actually be
less happy than they were when they started. See Also:
Narcissism, Pick Up Artists
Pain Period — The period of time when
one begins to open themselves up emotionally and make themselves
more vulnerable to others. This temporarily causes one to behave in
a less attractive manner as they sort through years of emotional
baggage and trauma. It’s usually a period accompanied by a lot of
emotional stress and pain. The pain period is necessary to go from
a low self-esteem and unconfident person to a high self-esteem and
True Confidence person. See Also: Vulnerability,
Non-neediness
Pick Up Artist — A school of dating
advice based on the teachings of Erik von Markovik (Mystery) and
Neil Strauss (Style), as well as Real Social Dynamics. Pick Up
Artists are characterized by their own specific lingo and
measurement for success, which is getting laid as much as possible.
Pick Up Artists objectify their emotional and sexual lives and,
therefore, cause long-term psychological damage to themselves
despite often having sex with women . Many Pick Up Artist teachings
encourage Narcissism and performance-based behavior. See Also:
Narcissism, Performance, Objectification
Polarization — Behavior that forces a
woman to feel strongly about you, whether positive or negative.
Polarization is useful for screening out women who are most
compatible with you very quickly. Polarization not only invites
rejection but uses it as a tool to achieve dating success
efficiently. See Also: Assortment Effect, Demographics,
Rejection
Projection — A common defense
mechanism used by both men and women to avoid anxiety. Projection
is when you perceive the source of your anxiety to have the
insecurity rather than yourself. For instance, an Indian man who is
insecure about his race will project onto the women he meets that
they are racist and don’t like him because he’s Indian. A man who
is insecure about women being mean to him will project onto women
who intimidate him that they are bitches and use that as a reason
to avoid them. Women project as well. As a man, it is possible to
be rejected a woman who is very attracted to you because she’s
insecure or uncomfortable with her sexuality. For instance, if a
woman is low self-esteem and perceives you to be too attractive for
her, she will project onto you that insecurity and get mad at you
for only wanting her for sex. This is the reason why less
attractive women may reject you more often and harsher than more
attractive women. See Also: Defense Mechanisms
Rejection — When a woman demonstrates
a lack of interest in a man’s sexual intent. Rejection can be overt
(i.e., “I have a boyfriend, sorry,”) or subtle (i.e., flaking,
going to the bathroom and not coming back, etc.).
Seduction - The process in which a
man induces a woman to become more highly invested in him than he
is in her. Sex is a side effect of this process. Women are
generally always less invested at the beginning of an interaction
because they almost always have more sexual and romantic options
than men do.
Self-Esteem — One’s unconscious
perception of their own value or self-worth. Confidence in sexual
interactions is one component of having high self-esteem. For the
sake of clarity, this book uses the term “non-neediness” in place
of self-esteem in most cases to express the relational component of
self-esteem. See Also: Non-Neediness, Attractive Behavior,
Finding Your Truth
Self-Selection — The unconscious
process of the assortment effect. Self-Selection is the idea that
no matter what you do or who you are, you are going to be
attractive to one particular demographic and unattractive to
others. For instance, if you’re tall and bald, you’re going to
unconsciously screen for women who like tall, bald men for no other
reason than women who don’t will reject you or display no interest
in you. If you’re a foreigner, then you will automatically
self-select for women who are interested in foreigners without
having to do anything. Similar to the assortment effect, but
instead of reflecting beliefs and attitudes, self-selection
reflects superficial preferences. See Also: Assortment Effect,
Demographics
Sexual Anxiety — When one experiences
apprehension and fear when expressing their sexuality or when
confronted with sexual situations. See Also: Courage, Defense
Mechanisms
Sexual Escalation — The process in
which two people become more and more sexually engaged. Typically
follows a pattern of light touching, to holding and heavy touching,
to kissing, then foreplay and eventually sex.
Sexual Intent — An expressed desire
to have sexual relations with someone. Can be overt and obvious or
subtle and implied through flirting. See Also: Creepy,
Flirting
Social Anxiety — When one experiences
fear and apprehension in social situations or when meeting new
people. See Also: Courage, Defense Mechanisms
Social Circle — A group of mutual
friends and acquaintances.
Social Proof — The psychological
mechanism where if many other people value something, then we will
value it as well. In attraction, the theory goes that if a number
of other people or women are attracted to you, then one specific
woman will become more attracted to you. Only applicable in social
circle situations. For instance, if you walk into a bar and a
number of women show interest in you, then a woman on the other
side of the bar who shares no mutual acquaintances is not going to
care. But if you walk into a bar and three of a woman’s female
friends know you and like you, then she is likely to be attracted
to you before you even speak to her.
Unconditionality — Performing an
action or saying something with no expectations of receiving
anything in return. Men often do attractive behaviors or nice
things with the expectation that the girl now owes them something
in return. A common example is he will compliment her with the
expectation that she’s supposed to be nice to him in return. This
is conditional behavior. Conditional behavior is unconfident and
generally backfires and makes one appear less attractive.
Unconditional behavior is an action with no expectations for
anything in return. Unconditionality is confident and therefore
attractive.
Vulnerability — Being unguarded or
undefended in expressing one’s thoughts and emotions. Most men hide
the thoughts and emotions they believe will make them less
attractive. This forces them to behave conditionally and base their
behaviors on the beliefs and perceptions of those around them. This
is unconfident behavior and ultimately makes them unattractive.
Paradoxically, making oneself vulnerable and surrendering to
criticism and not expecting anything in return from others causes
one to build self-esteem, become more confident and more
attractive.