The Three Fundamentals


The Three Fundamentals are the three
ways in which a man can become more vulnerable and become less
needy. Improving each one of the Three Fundamentals will improve
your results, sometimes drastically. Each of the Three Fundamentals
can be worked on independently, but as we’ll see later, improving
one of the three often indirectly benefits the other two and
vice-versa.
The Three Fundamentals are:
1. Creating an attractive and enriching
lifestyle.
2. Overcoming your fears and anxiety around
socializing, intimacy and sexuality.
3. Mastering the expression of your emotions and
communicating fluidly.
The way to improve each of these fundamentals
is by drilling deeper into your vulnerability for each one of them.
So one way to think about it is that the fundamentals are the
categories in which you can improve your results with women
(and general well-being), and expressing your vulnerability and
seeking truth is the process in which you improve in the
categories.
For short, I refer to the Three Fundamentals
as Honest Living, Honest Action, and Honest Communication.
For instance, Honest Living, or creating an
attractive lifestyle involves really drilling down and
understanding what you want as a man for your life and then working
to make that a reality. If you’re in a job you hate with hobbies
you hate and friends you don’t like, then no matter what you do or
how much money you make, you’re going to have a hard time meeting
attractive women that you enjoy and who enjoy being with you. This
is because the identity you have adopted does not accurately
reflect your emotional needs and desires. You are not living your
life honestly, which means you are not investing in yourself, which
means you are needy and unattractive.
If your true passion is art and you push
paper around at an insurance firm, then you’re not living honestly.
You’ve compromised your identity in some way to fit what others
have dictated it should be; in this case, you’ve given up what
actually makes you happy in order to fit the values or roles of
other people in society (having a stable job, working in the
corporate world, having a nice house/car, etc.). This displays a
lack of vulnerability and neediness.
If those things aren’t actually
important to you, then you have a responsibility to yourself to
change. Otherwise, you’re always going to be an unattractive man.
How so? Because you’re living 40 hours a week, every week,
investing your identity in what others want out of you and not what
you want of yourself. This is like baseline neediness, and until
you straighten this out, you will be needy with every woman
you meet, preventing you from meeting the truly amazing women that
you could potentially be with one day.
Honest Living correlates directly with the
quality of women that you will attract. The more in-tune you
are to your lifestyle, the more you take care of your appearance
and your health, the higher the quality of women you will attract
and the greater percentage of Receptive women you’ll meet.
Honest Action is overcoming your fear and
anxiety around women. Our anxiety is another form in which we
highly invest ourselves in others’ perceptions and avoid our truth.
Like a poor lifestyle, it also seems to be embedded in us and it’s
something that requires a lot of thought and effort to repair over
a longer period of time.
I call it Honest Action because it is honesty
in the strictest terms. If you see a beautiful woman and have a
desire to meet her, to not take action and meet her is a form of
being dishonest with yourself. If you’re standing in a bar, and you
see a woman who catches your interest, and you keep looking at her
all night because you’re afraid to do something, on a deep level,
you’re being dishonest about your intentions and sexuality. You’re
being overly invested in her and others’ opinions and are unable to
expose your vulnerability.
All fear around your sexuality is a result of
feeling inferior or unworthy. If you’re afraid to approach a woman,
it’s because somewhere inside you are more invested in her opinion
of you than you are in your own opinion of yourself. If you’re
afraid to ask a woman to come home with you, it’s because you are
afraid of the sexual reality that you want to sleep with her —
you’re more invested in her not rejecting you than you are
in aligning yourself with your desires.
Overcoming your fear and anxiety will
correlate with your overall results with women. The reason being
that once a man overcomes his fear of rejection, he’s willing to
more or less pursue any woman he wants when he wants. Even if he’s
a deadbeat (lacks a good lifestyle) or even if he’s terrible at
expressing himself (lacks good communication skills), he will
eventually meet women who want to date him and sleep with him by no
other means than pure numbers. If he’s willing to approach 500
women with no fear of rejection, eventually at least one of them is
going to stick.
Honest Action correlates directly to the
quantity of women you meet and attract.
The third fundamental is Honest
Communication, or learning to express yourself freely and
effectively. This is what most dating advice sells and classifies
as “game” — a good sense of humor, the ability to connect with
people, telling stories, engaging people’s attention, having
charisma, and expressing your sexuality openly. These are all parts
of this fundamental.
I call it Honest Communication because it’s
learning how to communicate your true intentions and emotions to
others clearly. Often we have certain thoughts or feelings, but we
don’t know the best way to convey those thoughts or feelings. This
third fundamental focuses on how to do that.
Honest Communication will determine the
efficiency with which you are able to attract women who are
compatible to you. A man who communicates poorly or is unable to
express himself clearly will lose a lot of romantic opportunities
to “lost in translation” situations — misunderstandings, vague
communications, inaccurate assumptions, etc.
Natural Advantages/Disadvantages
Chances are, you’re already pretty strong in
one or more of the Three Fundamentals and weak or mediocre at one
or more of them. Where your strengths and weaknesses lie will
determine not just the quantity of your results with women, but
also the types of outcomes you achieve.
For instance, a man with an amazing lifestyle
but poor action and poor communication will be surrounded by
beautiful and interesting women but never be with them. Classic
examples of this are rich or good-looking men who are still single
and frustrated. They may have money, connections, power and meet
beautiful women regularly (or have beautiful women approach them),
but they’re never able to capitalize on their opportunities.
A man with no fear or anxiety with women will
be able to approach and ask out many women, but his
effort-to-reward ratio will be poor and the quality of women will
be worse. Often a lot of aspiring players fall into this category —
they go out 5-6 nights per week, approach dozens of women, fail
with almost all of them, but every once in a while convince a drunk
sloppy girl to come home with them.
A man with great communication skills but a
lot of fear and a poor lifestyle will rarely meet or attract
beautiful women, but the few times he does, he will capitalize on
his few opportunities. Most so-called “normal” guys are like this.
They rarely see opportunities, but when they come along, they take
them and do well. The problem with these men is that they never
feel like they’re in control of their love lives. They’re always
waiting for that next woman who’s interested to come around. And
sometimes they end up waiting quite a while.
The Three Fundamentals are interesting in
that they explain why a lot of men implement a lot of dating advice
or self-improvement and don’t see any actual change in results. If
your weakness is that you aren’t able to communicate coherently or
empathize with what other people are expressing, then being
encouraged to approach 500 new women is going to be an absolute
disaster.
If you are broke, live with your parents, and
have no job, then being encouraged to spend all of your time and
money out in nightclubs is only going to get you a bunch of
meaningless sex with mediocre drunk girls who have no better
options.
If you are scared to death of saying anything
to a woman you find attractive, then the best conversation tricks,
teasing and flirting lines, or even openers are not going to help
you at all.
But as I said earlier, the Three Fundamentals
are interdependent — they feed off of one another. So if your
biggest problem is an inability to communicate well, then meeting
100 new women won’t directly benefit you, but the fact that
you’re talking to 100 new people will indirectly help your issue.
In the same way, being able to communicate effectively will help
guys with extreme levels of anxiety in their development because
the few times they do work up the nerve to make a move on women,
they will usually do it in a smooth and socially-attuned way.
It’s important to cater the advice that you
implement to your specific issues. Hopefully reading this chapter,
you have at least a vague idea of where your weaknesses are. The
rest of this book is dedicated to breaking down each of the
Fundamentals individually and giving clear how-to guides for
improving them. Identifying and focusing on the fundamental(s) you
need to work on most will be the quickest route to improving your
love life and sex life. Most of you will have one or two main
weaknesses and probably one natural strength. But some of you may
be weak in all of them. I guarantee you, if you’re reading this,
you are not strong in all of them. If you think you are and are
still reading this far, then you’re deluding yourself and need to
re-read Chapter 3 on being honest with yourself.
Two Types of Men
In my experience, almost all men who struggle
with relationships fall into one of two categories: socially
anxious or socially disconnected.
Socially anxious men tend to have the third
fundamental down very well. They’re good at expressing themselves
and are very aware of social norms and what others are
thinking/feeling. In fact, in a lot of cases, socially anxious men
are too aware of what other people are thinking and feeling
and, therefore, have a lot of social anxiety. They’re afraid to
speak to new women. They get nervous pushing things forward.
They’re scared to ask women on dates.
Generally, though, once these men do
meet a woman who likes them, they do OK. They can converse with her
all night. And if she happens to be attracted to him, he’s not such
a mess. But it’s the actual being pro-active and making a move that
scares him to death. These men usually spend most of their time
focusing on overcoming fear and little time on expression.
Socially disconnected men are the opposite.
These are men who have always been a little bit “oblivious” to what
others think and feel around them. Usually, they’re guys who have
always kind of kept to themselves and grew up more interested in
their studies or some nerdy subject than the people around
them.
Interestingly, men who are socially
disconnected have far less fear or anxiety when it comes to
approaching, pursuing, or escalating with women. In fact, it’s
because they’re so oblivious to social cues and what others
are thinking/feeling that they are so fearless around them.
The struggle for men in this category is
going to be the third fundamental: learning how to express
themselves and understanding how people think and feel around them.
These men have little hesitance or fear for action, but they tend
to do the wrong actions at the wrong times over and over and over,
and they rarely understand why.
The first fundamental (lifestyle) is all over
the map and is a work-in-progress for everyone. The better your
lifestyle, the easier everything else will be. And ultimately you
should be working on your lifestyle for yourself first and foremost
— the attractiveness to women is just an enjoyable side effect.
But the second and third fundamentals are
intimately connected to one another. Anxious guys are anxious
because they’re so socially attuned to others (perhaps even
too socially in tune with others), and socially disconnected
guys are fearless because they are socially disconnected from
others.
The idea is to become socially connected
and fearless at the same time and have an awesome and
attractive lifestyle. The full package. The Three Fundamentals.
But whichever type you are, read all three
sections, as even reading about areas in which you’re naturally
strong will reinforce your positive habits. And you will probably
pick up a few pointers on how to improve your strengths even
further.
Part III is about Honest Living — building an
attractive and abundant lifestyle so that quality women who are
most compatible with you naturally gravitate into your life.
Part IV is about Honest Action — overcoming
your fears and anxieties so that you may act on your impulses and
desires without hesitation or shame.
Part V is about Honest Communication —
training yourself to express yourself openly and effectively in a
dynamic and interesting way that will keep women interested in you
and help you make that transition to becoming physical with
them.
Parts III and IV are divided into two
chapters each. The first covers the concepts and ideas of that
fundamental and the second gives specific, actionable advice on how
to improve each fundamental. For instance, in Part III (Honest
Living), Chapter 7 covers the concept of Demographics and how it
affects how women are going to respond to you. Chapter 8 is called
“Lifestyle and Presentation" and describes how we can use the
knowledge of demographics to make ourselves as attractive as
possible to each woman we meet.
Part V has four chapters to cover all aspects
of communicating efficiently (verbally, physically, etc.), as well
as what’s socially expected in the courtship process.
And keep in mind moving forward that the
foundation behind all of the advice given is the idea that an
honest expression of yourself and your desires as a man is the most
effective way to demonstrate non-neediness and to therefore create
lasting and genuine attraction with women who will make you the
happiest.
If at any point along the first six chapters
you felt like something didn’t make sense or didn’t “click,” then
you may want to flip back and review it. If not, if everything
makes sense and the reasoning behind everything I’ve said so far
makes sense, then you’re ready. Read on...