The Gift of Truth


“Hey honey, can I pee in your
butt?”
I stood there horrified as my friend shouted
this at literally every attractive girl who came within five feet
of us.
The year was 2006. I was in college, and at
the time, to help myself get better with girls, I started hanging
out with a couple guys who got more women than anyone else I knew.
I was young and naïve and needy and still saw relationships in
terms of performance. The idea, then, was that I’d go out with
these super player guys, study what they said to women and then
emulate it to be successful myself.
Enter my friend Matt and “Can I pee in your
butt?”
Matt was a guy I briefly met once through a
friend, but his reputation was widely known. He was in a rock band,
had tattoos down his arms, and banged girls like it was his
part-time job. I had run into him by chance a week or two earlier
and this was my first time hanging out with him for a whole
night.
As you can imagine, his “Can I pee in your
butt?” comment wasn’t entirely successful. In fact, I think just
about every girl ran away from us in horror. Matt was drunk and I
was seriously questioning what the hell I was doing out with
him.
But then something funny happened. A couple
girls laughed. And then suddenly another girl actually hung around
and kept talking to us.
Needless to say, back in 2006, there hadn’t
been anything written in pick up manuals that I had studied about
how to transition out of a “Can I pee in your butt?” opener. So I
stood there awkward and confused, waiting to see how this would
turn out.
Next thing I know Matt is telling her he’s
going to lick her butthole tonight…
OK, forget this, I’m going home. I don’t want
to be associated with this clown when he gets us thrown out of the
bar, or worse, arrested for sexual harassment.
About fifteen minutes later, Matt finds me,
and surprisingly he’s got his arm around the girl he had been
talking to. She’s got a huge smile across her face.
“Hey man, we’re heading back to her place, it
was great hanging out, we should do it again sometime.”
I sat there in the bar alone, trying to piece
together what I had just seen. It made no sense and went against
everything I had ever known about women my entire life.
To this day, this was one of the most pivotal
nights for me as far as understanding attraction is concerned. Was
it that I learned that “Can I pee in your butt?” is the right thing
to say?
No, actually, I still think it’s a pretty
awful thing to say. And truth be told, in hindsight my friend Matt
had a lot of narcissism going on.
But what I learned is that regardless of what
you say to a woman, the intention and implications of why
you are saying it are far more powerful than the words
themselves.
You can say the lamest and grossest (or
funniest, depending on your perspective) thing to women, and if the
sub-communication is, “I really don’t care if you laugh or run away
horrified, but here’s who I am, take it or leave it,” this
sub-communicates a rock-bottom level of investment and an
incredibly high level of vulnerability.
Does this mean that saying grotesque things
to women for no other reason than to self-amuse will get you laid?
Not always. And not necessarily often. But you could do worse.
Does it mean that you should go out and try
and say things like this? To “fake it ‘til you make it” with this
line and other offensive lines? Well, actually, no. Do you know
why?
Most men can relate to the idea of trying to
“pick up” a woman without looking like they’re trying. Or trying to
be cool without looking like they’re trying to be cool. Entire
books and schools of dating advice have been built on this idea —
pursuing a woman without actually letting her know that you’re
interested in her.
Just typing that paragraph feels exhausting.
Talk about a lot of work for nothing.
Like I described before, this
performance-based stuff works sometimes, but it’s a short-term
solution that requires a lot of time and effort. In my opinion,
it’s a terrible investment of time and effort. You may as well
invest that time and effort in yourself and let your identity and
honesty do all of the attracting for you.
After all, why learn how to fake being cool,
when you can just learn to become cool yourself?
On top of that, walking the tightrope of
pursuing her without looking like you’re pursuing her requires a
lot of attention and effort. You can slip up easily. It’s very
unforgiving and ultimately, not a very enjoyable process. Besides,
all of the attention and effort on “gaming” women this way
ironically encourages you to be even more highly-invested and
needy, therefore decreasing her likely attraction for you.
Men avoid demonstrating an honest interest in
a woman because they believe it will signify that they are too
invested in her — i.e., it will show that they are needy. They
think that when you say, “You’re cute and I wanted to meet you,”
that translates roughly to, “Hi, I’m such a desperate loser that
I’m just going to throw all of my desires out there right now and
beg you to accept them.”
But remember, it’s not the actual behaviors
or words themselves, it’s the intentions behind those words.
There’s a world of sub-communication going on behind a man’s honest
declaration of his interest. And it’s an attractive one.
Because when a man comes right out and says
he’s interested in a woman, the sub-communication is actually, “I’m
totally OK with the idea of you rejecting me, otherwise I would not
be approaching you in this manner. Therefore, I'm comfortable with
myself and my prospects.”
Think about it, if a guy wasn’t comfortable
with the prospect of a woman rejecting him, he wouldn’t have been
honest in the first place. In fact, he would have pretended that he
wasn’t actually interested in her!
The fact that he honestly expressed to her
his intentions, that he put his nuts on the chopping block and made
himself vulnerable to her immediately, actually sub-communicates
non-neediness and attractiveness in itself. And on top of that, it
shows desire for her, which is going to trigger her arousal.
Remember: what you actually say doesn’t
matter; why you say it matters.
Always. No exceptions. You can have the best
line in the world, but if you’re saying it because you’re needy and
desperate for validation and approval from women, then she is
immediately going to sense it.
This is why using pick up lines is ultimately
a futile process. I could sell you the best 100 things I’ve ever
said to women, but I can’t ever sell you my intentions or my
confidence in myself. You must develop those on your own. And once
you do, the actual lines you say will be personal and congruent
to you and nobody else.
The Truth Is Always Shining Through
I’ll go ahead and tell you that I actually
did go out and say “Can I pee in your butt?” to women the next
week. Can you guess what happened?
Nothing.
In fact, I got a bunch of weird and disgusted
looks and not a single laugh.
It’s because I was saying it looking for a
reaction. Once again, I was highly invested in how women responded
to me. I simply did not get it at the time. It didn’t matter what I
said or didn’t say; if I said it in a way that demonstrated I cared
way too much about how they responded to me, it would never work. I
would come off as a creep and women would avoid me as if I had
gonorrhea on my face.
This is because the truth is always shining
through. You can’t fake vulnerability and you can’t fake honesty.
By their very definition, it’s impossible.
Men’s dating advice gives women very little
credit when it comes to this. Women are generally quite intuitive
to emotions, motivations, and social cues. We may think we’re
clever when we come up with a cute line to approach a woman with,
thinking that she has absolutely no idea that we’re secretly
hitting on her. She does. They always do. And it’s not a big deal
either.
And not only does she know we’re hitting on
her, the fact that we seemed so concerned about getting rejected
turns her off. The fact that we had to contrive lines and fake
stories in order to start a conversation with her, whether
consciously or not, signals to her that we are highly invested and
not a truly attractive man.
You cannot fake non-neediness for more than a
moment. The only women you will manage to fake are women who are
drunk or who are extremely needy themselves. Truth.
Non-needy and truly high-quality women who
are not invested in the attention they receive from men are not
going to have much patience for your lines and games. They will
either see through them and see you for who you really are — scared
to expose your vulnerability — or they will simply assume you’re
not worth investing in because you’d rather just talk about spells
or games or whatever.
Vulnerability requires honesty, and honesty
only works if it’s given unconditionally, with no strings attached.
That means everything you say and do must be done without any
ulterior motive. You are simply expressing your thoughts and
feelings as they come to you, without inhibition, without
shame.
The truth is always shining through. Even if
you lie about yourself or act a certain way, this is actually
saying much more about you and your character than the content of
your statements. Even if you are exaggerating or putting on a bit
of an act to impress a person, your intentions will always shine
through, eventually, and they will say more about you than any word
ever could.
You can tell women that you’re a record
producer and are friends with Jay-Z, but chances are unless you’re
a really good actor, people are going to sense subtle
inconsistencies in your behavior to back that up. Sooner or later,
they will. Then your true identity will shine through, your lack of
vulnerability with shine through, your desperation for affection
will shine through, and you will be a sad, pathetic and
unattractive man.
This is an extreme example, but it plays
itself out the same way on a smaller scale. Let’s take a classic
example of pretending not to be interested in a woman to get her
interested in you.
If you pretend you don’t like a woman, ignore
her, act like what she says is stupid or uninteresting, when in
fact you do like her, and you are interested in what she says,
subtle cues in your behavior and body language will slowly but
surely tip you off. The armor will crack. It may be laughing too
much at your own joke. Or tilting your head away at an awkward
moment. Or making an awkward comment to her friend that feels
forced. But people’s bullshit detectors will eventually go off, and
you’ll be exposed for not presenting an honest expression of
yourself.
But what about men who gush about how
beautiful a woman is to flatter her? What about the men who buy
women drinks and beg them for dates and call them incessantly and
tell them how they’re always thinking about them? Those guys are
being honest about their intentions and their feelings, but they’re
not getting anywhere, are they?
Here’s the problem: human nature is such that
we don’t trust people who like us if we don’t feel as though we
earned it somehow. Imagine if some stranger came up to you, started
complimenting you incessantly, buying you things, how would you
react?
You’d probably think to yourself, “OK, what’s
this guy selling?” Or maybe, if he was particularly pushy and
weird, “Jesus, is this guy an ax murderer?”
That’s because they’re showing how invested
they are in your approval without them actually knowing you,
without them taking the time to connect with you and understand
you. And as a result, you don’t trust them. You find them creepy
and weird.
Welcome to every day of an attractive woman’s
life.
Men like this are broadcasting their
neediness like a giant neon billboard coming out of their ass. They
come up and gush to a woman about how amazing she is while they’ve
only known her for 10 seconds. They buy her things with only
knowing her for a few hours. What this man is signaling to her is,
“I don’t know you, but I’m already going to do anything to win your
approval, that’s how desperate I am.” And it comes across as
pathetic.
And even on a deeper level, what these men
are sub-communicating is something else: “The only value I have to
offer as a man is money and compliments. I have nothing else going
for me.”
A man with an attractive and interesting
lifestyle, a man with high standards for himself and the
relationships in his life, will take the time to get to know an
attractive woman before soliciting her with gifts. He will wait
until he feels strongly enough to genuinely give her a compliment.
And if he talks to her and discovers that there is little that is
interesting about her beyond her looks, then he will lose
interest.
Ironically, it’s these high standards and
self-regard that women pick up on and find incredibly sexy. And
it’s these same standards and self-regard that most men spend a lot
of time trying to fake.
When in doubt, check your intentions.
Think about it: the average guy at the bar
who goes around buying cute girls drinks — why is he buying them?
So the girls will sit there and talk to him. When he comments on
how beautiful they are and how he’s so infatuated with them, why is
he complimenting them? So that they’ll like him. When he pays for
fancy dinners and offers to buy them jewelry, why is he doing it?
So they’ll be impressed with him and not leave him.
These are not gifts or compliments at all.
These are deals he’s brokering. The terms may be implied or
unspoken, but they’re transactions all the same. Everything he
gives to her, he is giving with the expectation to receive
something in return. The drinks are not unconditional. They’re
bought with the provision that she stays and talks to him. The
compliments are spoken with the provision that she shows him
affection in return.
And when the women don’t show appreciation or
don’t reciprocate interest, he becomes furious, blaming the women
for being gold-digging, lying whores and bitches. Again, being a
“nice guy” is never much different than being a narcissist. One
only gives. The other only takes. But both are the same in their
desperation for approval.
This is a subtle form of manipulation and,
therefore, at its core, dishonest.
Once again, most high value, confident women
will see through this immediately and not hang around a man who
does this. In fact, the only women who will go for a man like this
are women who are superficial and willing to trade their affection
for material and superficial gain — these women are soulless and
suppress their emotions as much, if not more than the men who buy
things for them.
An attractive man expresses his interest
unconditionally, expecting nothing in return. This arouses women
and when they do reciprocate his interest, their interest is, in
fact, a gift in return.
True honesty is only possible when it is
unconditional. The truth is only the truth when it is given as a
gift — when nothing is expected in return. When I tell a girl that
she is beautiful, I say it not expecting anything in return.
Whether she rejects me or falls in love with me isn’t important in
that moment. What’s important is that I’m expressing my feelings to
her in that moment.
I don’t use my compliments as a bargaining
tool. I give them unconditionally. A needy man will give a woman a
compliment without knowing her and wait expectantly for her to
repay him in either her company or with thanks or with sexual
favors. I will give compliments only when I am honestly inspired to
give them, and usually after already meeting a woman and displaying
to her that I’m willing to disagree with her, willing to be
rejected by her and willing to walk away from her if it ever comes
to that. This willingness to walk away from her and this ability to
accept nothing in return is what gives my genuine interest so much
value.
When a compliment comes from a man seeking
nothing in return, it’s a gift of truth, a piece of his
vulnerability and infinitely more powerful as a result.
And this honest compliment inspires women to
become more highly invested in return. Paradoxically, seeking no
investment from her will inspire her to invest that much more in
you.
Beautiful women are complimented on their
looks often, and 99% of these compliments are given out of
neediness, out of some idealization of who she is or what she can
do for him.
Beautiful women have been conditioned for
most of their lives to know when a man is being genuine or not,
whether the compliment is a gift or a bartering tool.
And when it is a gift, when it is honest, she
recognizes and appreciates a man who genuinely appreciates her.
These men are rare.
Women are people too (radical idea, I know).
And as people, we all value those who genuinely value us, not
expecting something in return.
The biggest aphrodisiac in the world is
someone who likes you, genuinely likes you. A woman’s desire is to
be desired. But it has to be genuine desire. It can’t be a, “I’ll
desire you as long as you boost my ego and impress my co-workers,”
kind of desire.
The point is that genuine no-strings-attached
appreciation is rare in this world, particularly from men. Women
value this and invest themselves in the rare man who can
demonstrate his vulnerability to her.
Here’s the litmus test. Look at your actions
and words around women and look at the intentions behind them.
These intentions are always speaking ten times louder than your
actual words. What are they saying?
If you bought a girl a drink so that she
wouldn’t leave to talk to someone else, what does that intention
say about you? It says you were over-invested in her and behaving
in a manner that was not attractive.
If you told a girl a story in order to
impress her and make her like you, what does that intention say
about you? It says you were over-invested and behaving in a manner
that was not attractive.
If you invited a woman to a restaurant in
order to impress her with how much money you had, what does that
intention say about you? It says you were over-invested and
behaving in a manner that was not attractive.
A man who feels like he needs to buy or steal
a woman’s attention or affection through entertainment, money or
superficiality is a man who is not confident in his identity and
who is not genuinely attractive.
I should add that these aren’t all-or-nothing
propositions either. Look, we all want people to like us, and we
all like to impress others. We all need some validation sometimes.
We all do these things to certain degrees. It’s impossible to be
perfectly non-needy all the time.
But neediness is relative. That’s why I say
it’s about being less invested in others’ perceptions
instead of NOT invested in others’ perceptions. It’s an
important difference.
I’m not advising to become a heartless
sociopath. Quite the opposite, really. Because the more you invest
in yourself, the freer you will become to care for others around
you without looking for anything in response. A man who is needy
and does not invest in himself is ultimately only capable of
superficial interactions because his threshold for vulnerability is
so low.
It’s impossible to be completely devoid of
investment in other people. That’s how we’re wired. But it is
always possible to invest and care about yourself more.
Setting Boundaries
But delivering honesty unconditionally isn’t
just about compliments and appreciation. Unconditional honesty can
be brutal and scathing at times as well. And strangely enough,
brutal and angry honesty can turn a woman on just as much as the
most genuine compliment.
Again, it’s not about what’s being said, it’s
about the intention and sub-communication behind it. When you’re
willing to cut a woman off and tell her when you feel that she’s
out of line, when you’re willing to tell a woman what you will and
will not tolerate in your life, this sub-communicates the most
powerful elements of attraction to her. Far more powerful than an
entertaining story or game.
This is why it’s quite possible to piss a
woman off and turn her on at the same time. Any man experienced
with women will be familiar with this.
If a beautiful woman says something that a
needy man finds offensive, he’ll ignore it, change the topic, or
withhold his true feelings. Hell, he might even pretend to go along
with her for fear of making her upset.
But a non-needy man will tell her what she
just said was offensive. Let the chips fall where they may. He
won’t be an asshole about it. He will simply draw a line in the
sand, “I don’t like stuff like that,” and she can choose to step
across it or not.
Narcissistic men often misconstrue this as a
free ticket to tell people they’re always wrong or to basically do
what they want without paying attention to the feelings of
others.
That’s over-compensation and actually the
behavior of someone who is over-invested and validated by the
reactions of those around him.
A non-needy man does not seek to
impose himself on the boundaries of others, he’s merely interested
in maintaining his own boundaries while respecting the boundaries
of others.
Non-neediness means you respect yourself AND
others. Narcissism means you only respect yourself. Neediness means
you only respect others.
The difference is that if a woman says
something offensive, a narcissistic man will berate her and try to
get her to change her mind, whereas a non-needy man will simply
make it clear that he found what she said offensive and will not
tolerate it again. How she responds is her choice.
If a woman insults a non-needy man’s friends,
he will not hesitate to tell her to stop and stand up for those he
cares about. If a woman says she needs to leave a date after 30
minutes, he will not try to trick her into staying or beg her to
come back, he will not yell at her or lecture her on manners. He
will smile and say, “Nice meeting you,” and let it go.
Hold your line. Don’t go around breaking
somebody else’s.
Most questions or problems men email me with,
at their core, somehow involve a failure to maintain their
boundaries. Whether it’s about a date, a woman not calling him
back, a woman making fun of his job, or whatever, his perceived
“problem” is simply him not stepping up and telling her what he’s
willing to accept and not willing to accept in his
relationships.
Typically it has to do with something like
the following:
“She really liked me and gave me her number.
She responds to my texts, but when I tried to get her out on a
date, she made excuses. So then I texted her some more and she said
she wanted to see me, but when she did show up for the second date,
she was late and said she had to go early. She didn’t kiss me. Now
I’m texting her and she’s texting back but won’t agree to go on a
third date. What do I do?”
Usually, men like this are obsessive about
“the games women play” or how to deal with “tests” from women.
My answer to these men is always the same: if
you make it clear from the beginning that you are unwilling to put
up with games, then not only will the women you attract stop
playing games, but you’ll stop attracting women who do.
In the example above, my plan of action? I
would have said to her, “Let me know when you’d like to get
together again. If you’re not interested, that’s fine too.”
Yes, I will actually say this to her. Not in
a harsh manner. But in a clear manner.
I’ve said something similar to women probably
5-10 times. Without exception, they’re completely stunned. Often,
they immediately apologize and say that they didn’t mean to be so
flakey. Oddly enough, my honesty and complete willingness to be
rejected (or to reject them) demonstrates my non-neediness and
often it causes them to become more attracted to me.
And a couple times, they’ve said, “You’re
right. I don’t want to date you,” in so many words. And that’s OK.
Yeah, it hurt to hear that. But a lot of shit in life hurts. Get
over it. It’s for the better. She just saved us both a lot of time
and effort.
Your ability and willingness to establish
boundaries is inversely proportional to how needy you are. Men who
are needy and lack vulnerability will keep their boundaries loose
and open, inviting manipulation into their lives and allowing
people to walk over them. This is because they are more than
willing to alter themselves in order to receive validation from the
women they meet.
Men who are non-needy establish strict
boundaries because they value their own time and happiness more
than receiving attention from a woman. They also see no reason to
trample over other people’s boundaries.
When it comes to making yourself more
vulnerable, the first step is often to begin establishing your own
boundaries. Learn how to say no to people, particularly women.
Start having opinions on what you like and don’t like, what you’ll
tolerate and won’t tolerate. Be honest with yourself, painfully
honest. And then be painfully honest with her.
The problem with forming strong boundaries is
that in order to form them, you have to be particularly aware of
your own desires and emotions. And many men who have been needy
their entire lives are not very self-aware. They don’t know what
they’re willing to stand up for and what they’re willing to let
slide. They don’t know their own emotional motivations and
desires.
Men will often have to spend a lot of time
seeking truth within themselves first before they’re able to
express it to others.
Finding Your Truth
Here are some truths that I’ve found out
about myself:
My overwhelming desire for affection from
women probably has a lot to do with the fact that I was raised by a
single mom in adolescence. My parents’ divorce left a deep-seated
fear of commitment in me that permeated all of my relationships
into my 30s. That a lot of what I considered cool when I was
younger was really just different ways to protect myself and
medicate my emotional wounds. That I resented my dad for a long
time. That I have a peculiar obsession with my masculinity. That my
most important values are honesty, empathy, and intellectual
curiosity. That I’m unwilling to tolerate women who don’t make me
happy, no matter how hot they are.
It’s easy for me to say these things now, and
what’s important is not the words. What’s important is the
floodgates of emotions that came up as I discovered these truths
about myself. As I discovered these things about myself, it allowed
me to express previously stifled emotions in my daily life and with
women.
Because as I’ve discovered each one of the
above truths about myself, I’ve then been able to draw boundaries
based on that truth, which in turn makes me less needy.
For instance, when I first started going out,
I spent a lot of time beating my head against a wall trying to pick
up the “hot” club girls at loud nightclubs. You know, fake tans,
fake tits, fake hair, fake personalities.
For whatever reason, I couldn’t keep their
attention long enough. Eventually, after pushing things further and
spending more time and effort in those places than I care to admit,
I went home with a few of them.
And... well, it was pretty disappointing.
What I discovered is that there was not
anything objectively better or more interesting about these girls.
The only thing that seems to attract men to them is the fact that
they look like women they see on TV and movies and in porn. There’s
nothing genuinely enticing about them other than that they are seen
as a status symbol. And chasing them was borne out of neediness,
not genuine honesty. It took me a couple years, but I eventually
realized that I was chasing a status symbol, a pat on the back,
basically reliving and redeeming all of my failed high school
moments where the pretty girls didn’t pay attention to me.
It had nothing to do with the women; it had
everything to do with me.
Now, when I meet a woman at a place like that
who doesn’t show me any depth to her personality, I’m unwilling to
put any more effort into getting to know her. My boundary is
established: I value curiosity, education, intelligence and
authenticity. I also don’t value “fake” looks such as pounds of
make-up, bronzer, hair extensions or super tight skirts.
OK, maybe I do value the tight skirts.
But the irony? Because that boundary is
established, I’m not invested in these women much at all, and as a
result, I get more attention from them than ever before.
It’s important to look at the reasons why
you’re over-invested around women and have an honest discussion
with yourself about it to try and resolve it.
For instance, perhaps you’re over-invested
around women because you’re a virgin and have no experience with
them. Then you need to look at how being inexperienced is causing
you to undervalue yourself and seek validation. You must become
comfortable with the idea of being inexperienced and be comfortable
admitting that insecurity if you wish to gain a lot of
experience.
Or perhaps your ex-girlfriend left you for
another man and you’re bitter. Before you can undo the anger that
is causing you to be over-invested, you need to come to terms with
why you’re angry and accept why your ex left you.
For me, a big part of this was accepting
that, actually, I had been a pretty naive and shitty boyfriend to
my ex-girlfriend and I could understand why she would want to leave
me. I also recognized flaws and insecurities in her that I hadn’t
noticed when we were together and that she hadn’t been the perfect
angel that I assumed she was. All in all, I came to terms with the
experience and the anger receded, allowing me to let go and become
less invested in women I dated.
Another example is a guy who has never been
“cool” before. Perhaps he was picked on growing up and made fun of
all through high school. Maybe the popular guys in school told him
he was gay and a pussy.
Perhaps now he’s older, better looking and
more social and is looking to compensate for all of those years of
feeling insignificant. So he does it by throwing money around and
attracting a lot of superficial attention. He’s having fun, but
he’s scratching that itch, he’s finally living out that need to be
the cool and popular guy. But at some point, he has to come to
terms with this, accept it, and become comfortable admitting it.
Then he can move on.
Again, if you’re only trying to get women to
impress other guys, then you’re not in a very good place, and you
need to take a serious look at your motivations. To undo this, you
must come to terms with why you’re seeking attention and approval
from other men — maybe it goes as far back as your father — and
then seek to find that approval through other means. Join a sports
team. Take your co-workers out for beers. Buy season tickets to the
local basketball team. There are much healthier ways to get male
camaraderie than to try and impress other guys by getting
girls.
For me, I had a combination of the second two
examples. I spent most of my adolescence living alone with my
mother. As a result, I always related more to girls than to boys,
and had few male friends until I reached adulthood. I never could
relate to them as well, and not having my father around as much
(both physically and emotionally) drove me to unconsciously seek a
lot of approval from other men.
Throw on top of that the fact my girlfriend
of four years left me, and I had a lot of anger toward women.
Combine the two and you have a perfect recipe for a needy man who
turned to narcissism in order to over-compensate and become a
player.
Recognizing and accepting these truths is the
only thing that allowed me to resolve and let go of a lot of my
investment and neediness toward women’s approval. I had to come to
terms with these faults within myself before I could finally
attract amazing women into my life with consistency. As soon as my
need to impress other men dissipated, so did my investment in how a
drunken girl in a bar thought of me. As soon as I let go of some of
my anger towards my ex, some of my need to fuck absolutely
everything disappeared too.
As a result, I became less invested and less
affected by the actions of the women around me, which in turn made
me more attractive around them. As if by magic, I began to attract
far more beautiful and interesting women with less effort.
And how do I know this? It was clear. My
looks didn’t change. I dressed the same way. Went to the same
parties and bars. But suddenly women were approaching me. I was
catching more beautiful women smiling at me and staring at me. My
outward appearance had changed little. My inner disposition changed
entirely. My outward behaviors soon followed suit.
Seeking the truth within yourself is a
long-term progress. An entire book could be written on it by
itself. But I guarantee that you have some deep-seated truths that
are currently causing you to invest too heavily in how women treat
you. Otherwise, you wouldn’t have bought this book or read this
far.
If you feel like you have some serious
emotional issues or believe that for whatever reason you’re basing
an insanely high amount of your identity on how women respond to
you, then I recommend therapy.
Therapy has a lot of negative stereotypes and
judgments that come along with it, but if you take the time to find
a good therapist who you trust and gel with, then it can be
extremely helpful.
The important thing about therapy is to
remember that it’s a tool, not a solution. A therapist is there to
guide you and motivate you in continuing to find your own emotional
truths about yourself. He or she can’t find them for you. A lot of
people show up to therapy expecting a therapist to magically fix
them. They then get frustrated when all they do is “talk” and get
asked annoying questions the whole session.
Those questions are asked for a reason. Be
pro-active in finding the emotional knots in yourself that you
didn’t know were there before. You’ll discover some amazing things.
That time the neighbor’s kids locked you in a closet all afternoon,
or the time your mother went home and forgot you at the grocery
store, or a parent’s divorce or death of a loved one — these all
have emotional repercussions that can and probably will motivate
you and drive you to over-invest in receiving validation from one
specific source or another in your life.
And that source is sometimes women.
Following the advice of this book should help
as well. All the advice in the book is crafted to help you develop
non-neediness. Implementing these behaviors and becoming more aware
of your emotions while you’re doing them should help you down the
road to permanent change.
As you’ll see, the book is divided up into
three core areas: building a congruent and attractive lifestyle for
yourself, overcoming your fears and anxieties, and becoming
socially adept at expressing your emotions and sexuality without
shame or hesitation.
All three of these sections will help you
become more vulnerable and less needy. As we’ll talk about in
Chapter 6, these things are all interconnected. When you work on
one of them, you indirectly benefit the others, and vice-versa.
Friction and Projection
I’d like to finish up the chapter discussing
a couple of exceptions when it comes to being vulnerable and
non-needy around women. I know at the beginning of the book I made
the promise that being less invested in any particular woman than
she is invested in you will make her perceive you as
attractive.
Well, that’s true, but just because she
perceives you as an attractive man, doesn’t mean she’ll immediately
want to jump into bed with you.
Attraction is great, but in and of itself,
it’s not always enough to consummate a romantic or sexual
relationship.
There are two main reasons that prevent
attracted women from being with you, and they are both quite
common: I call them friction and projection.
Friction is when a woman finds you to be an
attractive man, but there are value differences or external
circumstances that prevent her from acting on that attraction or
being interested in you.
For instance, let’s say you’re a rock star
who spends his nights getting drunk and banging groupies and she’s
a born-again Christian and has sworn off all sex before marriage.
That mismatch in personal values is going to disrupt any potential
of ever being together and is a genuine piece of friction that is
going to prevent anything from happening.
The most common case is the girlfriend/wife.
This happens all the time. You meet a woman, you two really click,
she’s laughing at all your jokes, smiles when you smile, looks into
your eyes a little bit too long…
…and she’s married.
And not only is she married but she makes a
point to cut the flirting off before it goes too far. She likes
you. She may even say that she’s attracted to you and be honest.
But she values her marriage more than her attraction to you. And
there’s nothing you can do about that. That’s friction.
Men often used to ask me how to get a woman
to cheat on her boyfriend or husband. My answer has two parts. The
first part is: you don’t, they decide. The second part of the
answer is: don’t fucking do it, what’s wrong with you? It
contributes to the fucking of people’s lives and even if it didn’t,
it’s never worth the headache it causes.
Friction can be religious, cultural or simply
due to poor logistics. For instance, some legit friction would be
if she lives in Australia and you live in New York. That creates
some problems for dating despite strong attraction.
There’s usually at least a little bit of
friction in any interaction. You’re never going to like 100% of any
woman and no woman is ever going to like 100% of you. There will be
slight differences in values or priorities that will irk you just a
little bit, or maybe a lot. There will also be unavoidable
situations and events that will cause obstacles to you two being
together.
Whether this friction prevents a sexual
relationship from occurring though will depend on the strength of
your boundaries and what your expectations are.
For instance, you may meet a really hot girl
who is a cocaine addict. But if you kind of just want to have sex
with her, you may overlook the cocaine addiction. Then again, if
you have a major moral issue with narcotics, then you’ll probably
be turned off and pass up on her.
Ultimately, your values determine your
behavior. And that’s kind of the point of all of this: YOUR values
determine your behavior, not what you think she wants, not what you
think others want, but what is best for you and best for the
relationship.
Projection is completely different. There are
a lot of women who, for whatever reason, are afraid of their own
sexuality and/or openly sexual men. They harbor trust issues and
resentment with men. Usually, this is because they have a history
of some sort of emotional/sexual abuse and/or they’ve experienced a
long string of disappointments with the men in their life.
When confronted with a non-needy man — a man
without these similar emotional hang-ups and distrust —
these women will usually be untrusting and lash out in response.
They are not lashing out for lack of attraction, but they are
lashing out because they are attracted and that strong
sexual attraction scares them, particularly if you’re a man who
feels threatening to them. Their view of male sexuality is negative
and when they are confronted with an honest and attractive man
they’ll often attack you and try to tear you down for it.
These are the women who will get angry and
say snide things like, “I bet you say that to all the girls,” or
will find reasons to push you away and then regret it and want you
back. They will pretend to miss your calls and then get angry when
you don’t persist in calling them, or they’ll make up excuses to
ignore you on a date and then get mad when you don’t behave like a
gentleman.
Needless to say, you’re better off without
these women. Take the rejection and move on.
Generally, these women are extremely needy,
and because of the large investment gap between you two, they will
try to project their own investment onto you. They will accuse you
of being demanding, overbearing, too horny, untrustworthy, or weak.
These accusations will have little to no connection to reality, and
a non-needy man will either walk away from a girl like this or
simply ignore her accusations if they have no bearing.
The only men willing to put up with such
nonsense are men who are highly needy as well. The needy man will
spend all of his time placating and trying to fix the accusations
and problems the woman projects onto him. And the most messed up
part about this is that the needy man will enjoy fixing and
placating the needy woman. The needy man enjoys it because this
constant “fixing” of the distrusting woman’s fears and accusations
makes the needy man feel needed.
If the man is narcissistic, then he will
usually lash out right back at the woman and they will engage in a
relationship full of petty, unimportant drama, playing out emotions
and projecting their histories of pain and marginalization onto
each other over and over again, until one of them finally becomes
conscious enough to break the cycle and move on. Sometimes this
happens quickly. Other times it takes months or years. Either way,
it’s always unpleasant.
The uncomfortable truth is that the majority
of women are going to have high degrees of friction and projection
when you meet them. With most of the women you meet, things are
simply not going to work no matter what you do or say. This is to
be expected. And this is fine. You are going to be incompatible
with most of the women in the world and to hold any hopes of being
highly compatible with most is an illusion of grandeur and a
figment of your own narcissistic tendency.
Incompatibility is a fact of life. No matter
how you behave or what you’re into, the majority of women out there
at any given time are simply not going to be interested or
emotionally available to you. Our job is not to attract every
woman, but to screen for women with a high potential of being
attracted to who we really are.
The reality of incompatibility defines our
entire strategy of dating women. To base our strategy on anything
else is inefficient at best and downright damaging at worst. The
world is what it is, it’s our job to simply present ourselves as
boldly and clearly to it as possible, accept the reactions and move
on the opportunities. Any attempt to control the reactions of
others or take some kind of power over the reactions you receive is
both foolish and illusory.