TWO
The Basics of Investing
Invest Now: What Are You Waiting For?
Many people wait until they are in their thirties, forties, and fifties to start saving money. It dawns on them that they’re not getting any younger, and soon enough they’ll need extra cash for retirement so they can afford a cabin on the lake or a trip around the world. The trouble is, by the time they realize they ought to be investing, they’ve lost valuable years when stocks could have been working in their favor. Their money could have been piling up.
Instead, they spend what they have as if there’s no tomorrow. Many of their expenses are unavoidable. They’ve got children to support, doctor bills, tuition bills, insurance bills, home repair bills, you name it. If there’s nothing left over, there’s not much they can do about it. But often enough, there is something left over, and still they don’t invest it. They use it to pay the tab at fancy restaurants, or to make the down payment on the most expensive car in the showroom.
Before they know it, they’re heading off into the sunset with nothing but a social security check in their pockets. They have to squeeze themselves into a tight budget at the very time they’re supposed to be enjoying life, because you can’t live it up on social security. It’s hard enough just to survive on social security.
One of the best ways to avoid this fate is to begin saving money as early as possible, while you’re living at home. When else are your expenses going to be this low? You have no children to feed—your parents are probably feeding you. If they don’t make you pay rent, so much the better, because if you’ve got a job you can sink the proceeds into investments that will pay off in the future. The more you salt away now, while you’re on the parental dole, the better off you’ll be when you move away and your expenses shoot up.
Whether it’s ten dollars a month, one hundred dollars a month, or five hundred dollars a month, save whatever amount you can afford, on a regular basis.
According to news reports, large numbers of twenty- and thirty-year-olds are migrating back to their parents’ houses where they get a free roof over their heads and free use of the TVs, VCRs, gym equipment, and so forth. This trend is supposed to indicate that America has produced a new generation of freeloaders, who lack the gumption to go out into the world and make it on their own. There’s a good side to this that we haven’t heard much about, except in a recent headline in The Wall Street Journal: “Generation X Starts Saving for Retirement.”
The gist of the story is that the freeloading twenty-somethings who belong to the so-called lost generation, or Generation X, have been quietly stashing away their loot. Apparently, there are more savers in this group than among their parents, the baby boomers who prefer buying things now to saving money for later. The Xers have realized that they can’t count on social security to bail them out. They’ve watched their parents struggle to pay off credit-card debts, and they want to avoid repeating this mistake. They seek financial independence, and they’re working toward it while they’re still at home, with their parents picking up the tab.
This is a very positive development, and we can only hope that more teenagers will follow in the footsteps of the twenty-somethings and not fall into the familiar trap of buying an expensive car. Many kids can’t wait to do this. As soon as they land that first steady job, they become slaves to the car payments.
It’s cool to drive around in a flashy new Camaro instead of a used Ford Escort, but that kind of cool is very costly in the long run. What’s the price of cool? Consider the following two cases: Joe Bigbelly and Sally Cartwheel.
Bigbelly gets a job as a clerk at Wal-Mart. He’s living at home and saving every last dollar so he can make the $2,000 down payment on a $20,000 Camaro with the racing scoop on the hood. He takes out a car loan for the remaining $18,000. His parents have to sign for the loan, but Bigbelly is making the payments. It’s a five-year loan at 11.67 percent interest, so he sends $400 to the finance company every month. He cringes the first time he seals the envelope, kissing $400 goodbye, but he forgets all about that when he’s driving around in the Camaro and his friends are telling him what a cool car it is.
A few months later, there are scratches on the door and stains on the carpet and nobody is oohing and aahing when the Camaro pulls into the parking lot. It’s just another car by now, but Bigbelly is stuck with the payments. To be able to afford the car and a date to ride in the car he works an extra night shift, which means he’s too busy to get many dates.
At the end of five years, he’s sick of the Camaro, which lost its cool a long time ago. He’s finally paid off the car loan, which cost him an extra $6,000 in interest charges, so between the loan and the original purchase price, Bigbelly has invested $26,000 in this car, not including taxes and fees, insurance premiums, gas, oil, and maintenance.
At this point, the Camaro has dents and stains and the engine sounds a bit rough. If he sold the thing he could get maybe $5,000 for it. So what he’s got to show for his $26,000 investment is a $5,000 car that he doesn’t even like anymore.
Sally Cartwheel also lives at home and works the Wal-Mart checkout line a few feet away from Bigbelly, but she didn’t buy a cool car. She took the $2,000 she’d saved up and bought a used Ford Escort. Since Sally paid cash, she didn’t have car payments. So instead of sending $400 a month to the finance company, she invested $400 a month in a mutual fund for stocks.
Five years later, when Bigbelly was mailing out his last car payment, the value of Cartwheel’s mutual fund had doubled. Between the doubling of the fund itself and the steady stream of $400 contributions to the fund, Cartwheel has an asset of nearly $30,000. She also has the Escort, which gets her back and forth OK, and she never worries about the dents and stains because she never thought of her car as an investment. It’s only transportation.
As we leave this economic morality tale, Cartwheel has enough money to make a down payment on her own house and move out of her parents’ house, while Bigbelly continues to mooch. He’s asked her out on a date, but she’s taken a fancy to the real-estate agent who’s showing her around.
Putting Your Money to Work
Money is a great friend, once you send it off to work. It puts extra cash in your pocket without your having to lift a finger. Let’s say you deposit $500 in a savings account that pays 5 percent interest. A year later, you’ve got an extra $25 and you didn’t have to mow a lawn or wash five cars to earn it. Your money earned it.
The $25 might not seem like much at first, but look what happens when you deposit $500 every year for ten years running, while the 5 percent interest is compounding and building up. At the end of the year after your tenth deposit, you’ve got $6,603.39—$5,000 of which you put in, plus the $1,603.39 that comes from the money that was made by the money.
If you invest $500 a year in stocks instead of putting it in the bank, the money gets a chance to do you an even bigger favor, while you’re off someplace living your life. On average, you will double your money every seven or eight years if you leave it in stocks. A lot of smart investors have learned to take advantage of this. They realize that capital (money) is as important to their future as their own jobs (labor).
Warren Buffett, America’s second-richest person at present count, got there by saving money and later putting it into stocks. He started out the way a lot of kids do, delivering newspapers. He held on to every dollar he could, and at an early age he understood the future value of money. To him, a $400 TV set he saw in the store wasn’t really a $400 purchase. He always thought about how much that $400 would be worth twenty years later, if he invested it instead of spending it. This sort of thinking kept him from wasting his money on items he didn’t need.
If you start saving and investing early enough, you’ll get to the point where your money is supporting you. It’s like having a rich aunt or uncle who sends you all the cash you’ll need for the rest of your life, and you never even have to send a thank-you note or visit them on their birthdays. This is what most people hope for, a chance to have financial independence where they’re free to go places and do what they want, while their money stays home and goes to work. But it will never happen unless you get in the habit of saving and investing and putting aside a certain amount every month, at a young age.
The A-plus situation is when you’re saving and investing a portion of your paycheck. The C-minus situation is when you’re spending the whole thing. The F situation is where you’re ringing up charges on your credit cards and running up a tab. When that happens you’re paying interest to somebody else, usually a credit-card company. Instead of your money making money, the company’s money is making money on you.
From Sears to Shell to the banks that sponsor credit cards, companies love it when you buy things with the card and don’t pay the entire bill right away. They use their own money to pay your bill. It’s a loan from them to you, although you might not see it that way. They charge you a high rate of interest on your unpaid balance. You may be paying them as much as 18 percent, which gives them a better return from your pocket than they could ever expect to get from the stock market. In other words, to a credit-card company, you’re a better investment than a stock.
When you buy a $400 TV set on a credit card that charges 18 percent interest, it costs you an extra $72 a year for the loan. And if you pay the minimum amount every month and let this loan drag on, you end up spending $800 for the $400 TV set. Millions of credit-card users haven’t figured this out, or there wouldn’t be $340 billion of credit-card debts still owed to the banks in this country. It’s estimated that in 1995, the total interest paid to banks on credit cards will reach $45 billion. Every year, people are shelling out this extra $45 billion, so they can buy things right away when they don’t have the cash.
Instant gratification, it’s called, and shoppers pay a high price for it. They read the ads and go into several different stores to find the best deal on a TV set to save themselves a few bucks, then they charge the TV set on a credit card, which may end up costing them an extra few hundred. They do this willingly, without even thinking about it.
In ancient times, forty-five years ago, before Diner’s Club came out with the first credit card that could be used in multiple establishments, people actually waited until they had the cash in their hands before they went to the store to buy things. They saved up for their TV sets, appliances, furniture, vacations, and so forth. It might have taken them six months, nine months, a couple of years even, to raise the money to make a purchase, but they never had to pay interest.
Believe it or not, shopping in this primitive way, without instant gratification, was often enjoyable. While you saved up for a TV set, you could sit around the living room and talk about how much fun it would be to have one. Imagining the TV set, or the washing machine, or the new suit of clothes was entertaining in itself.
People felt great pride when they worked hard and made certain sacrifices in order to pay for something all at once. It made them nervous to owe money to the banks, and when they paid off their home mortgages, they had parties and invited all the neighbors to help them celebrate. It wasn’t until the 1960s that Americans got into the habit of using credit cards, and it wasn’t until the 1980s that average families were hocked to the limit on mortgages, car loans, home equity loans, and the unpaid balances on their cards.
This is the F situation that many households have gotten themselves into. Instead of their money making money in stocks or in the bank, the bank’s money is making money on them. They’re paying out hundreds, if not thousands of dollars a year on interest. It’s OK to pay interest on a house or an apartment, which will increase in value, but not on cars, appliances, clothes, or TV sets, which are worth less and less as you use them.
Debt is saving in reverse. The more it builds up, the worse off you are. We see this in households across America, people struggling to make the payments, and in the government itself, which at the moment is hopelessly in debt to the tune of nearly $5 trillion. It now takes fifteen cents of every tax dollar just to pay the interest on this national debt, which is growing every day. It’s been allowed to build up because the government spends more money than it takes in, and the rest it borrows from individuals, pension funds, banks, foreign governments—anybody who will make it a loan. We hear a lot of talk about balancing the budget and cutting the deficit, but every year we add another $100 billion, $200 billion, $300 billion in new debt on top of the old debt.
Let’s imagine that last year you bought $1,000 worth of stuff and charged it to your credit card, and this year you buy another $900 worth of stuff and put it on that same card. Anywhere in the country but Washington, they’d say you just increased your debt by $900, because now you owe $1,900 on your credit card, whereas last year you owed $1,000. But in Washington, they don’t look at it that way. They’d say you reduced your debt by $100, because you only added $900 in new charges to the card instead of the $1,000 you added last year.
That’s how the government congratulates itself for cutting the deficit while the deficit continues to grow. This year, it adds, say, $200 billion to the debt and calls it a “reduction” because last year it added, say, $250 billion to the debt. Really, it’s no reduction at all. It’s another $200 billion, plus interest, that our children and our children’s children will someday have to pay. The debt will continue to mount until the government stops using the credit card and spends only what it collects in taxes. Right now, it gets an F-minus and sets a great example for what the rest of us shouldn’t do.
America was once a nation of savers. People of all income levels put aside as much money as they could, mostly in savings accounts at the local bank. They made money on this money as it grew with interest, so eventually they could use it for a down payment on a house, or to buy things, or to draw on in family emergencies. In the meantime, the bank could take people’s savings and lend them out to home buyers, or home builders, or businesses of all kinds.
A country with a high savings rate can pay for roads, phone lines, factories, equipment, and all the latest innovations that help companies make better and cheaper products to sell to the world. An example is Japan. Japan was nearly ruined by World War II, but it managed to bounce back and become a great economic power. The Japanese started out making plastic toys and trinkets, and “made in Japan” was something to laugh at, but soon enough there was a Japanese car in one out of three American driveways and Japanese TV sets in two out of two American houses, and “made in Japan” meant high technology and high quality.
Japan was able to revamp its industries and rebuild its cities and towns because of the high savings rate. It’s still a nation of savers today. The United States has a lot of catching up to do in this area, because we no longer save the way we once did. While we put aside 4 percent of our income every year, the people of Japan, Germany, China, India, Taiwan, and many other countries are saving 10 percent, 20 percent, or more. We lead the world in credit cards and in borrowing money to pay for things we want right away but can’t quite afford.
Save as much as you can! You’ll be helping yourself and helping the country.
The Pros and Cons of the Five Basic Investments
There are five basic ways to invest money: putting it in a saving account or something similar; buying collectibles; buying an apartment or a house; buying bonds; and buying stocks. Let’s examine these one at a time.
1. Savings Accounts, Money-Market Funds, Treasury Bills, and Certificates of Deposit (CDs)
All of the above are known as short-term investments. They have some advantages. They pay you interest. You get your money back in a relatively short time. In savings accounts, Treasury bills, and CDs, your money is insured against losses, so you’re guaranteed to get it back. (Money markets lack the guarantee, but the chances of losing money in a money market are remote.)
Short-term investments have one big disadvantage. They pay you a low rate of interest. Sometimes, the interest rate you get in a money-market account or a savings account can’t even keep up with inflation. Looking at it that way, a savings account may be a losing proposition.
Inflation is a fancy way of saying that prices of things are going up. When gas goes from $1.10 a gallon to $1.40, or a movie ticket from $4.00 to $5.00, that’s inflation. Another way to look at inflation is that the buying power of the dollar is going down.
In recent times, inflation has been running just below 3 percent, which means for every dollar you own, you’re losing three cents every year. This adds up very quickly, and in ten years, at the present rate of inflation, all your dollars will have had thirty cents taken out of them.
The first goal of saving and investing is to keep ahead of inflation. Your money’s on a treadmill that’s constantly going backward. In recent years, you had to make 3 percent on your investments just to stay even.
As the chart on page 101 clearly indicates, money markets and savings accounts often don’t pay enough interest to make up for the losses from inflation. And when you subtract the taxes you have to pay on the interest, money markets and savings accounts have been losers in at least ten years out of the twenty shown on the chart.


The Inflation Treadmill


Year
Money MarketFund Rates(%)
Passbooksavings rates(%)
Inflation(%)


1975
  6.4
   5.25
  9.1


1976
  5.3
   5.25
  5.8


1977
  5.0
  4.9
  6.5


1978
  7.2
  4.9
  7.7


1979
11.1
  5.1
11.3


1980
12.7
  5.2
13.5


1981
16.8
  5.2
10.4


1982
12.2
  5.2
  6.2


1983
  8.6
  5.5
  3.2


1984
10.0
  5.5
  4.3


1985
  7.7
  5.5
  3.6


1986
  6.3
  5.5
  1.9


1987
  6.1
  5.3
  3.7


1988
  7.1
  5.5
  4.1


1989
  8.9
  6.1
  4.8


1990
  7.8
  5.8
  5.4


1991
  5.7
  4.3
  4.2


1992
  3.4
  2.9
  3.0


1993
  2.7
  2.5
  2.8


1994
  3.8
  2.6
  3.0


Sources: IBC’s Money Fund Report, a service of IBC/Donoghue, Inc. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics; Federal Reserve.
That’s the problem with leaving money in a bank or a savings and loan. The money is safe in the short run, because it’s insured against loss, but in the long run, it’s likely to lose ground against taxes and inflation. Here’s a tip—when the inflation rate is higher than the interest rate you’re getting from a CD, Treasury bill, money-market account, or savings account, you’re investing in a lost cause.
Savings accounts are great places to park money so you can get at it quickly, whenever you need to pay bills. They are great places to store cash until you’ve got a big enough pile to invest elsewhere. But over long periods of time, they won’t do you much good.
2. Collectibles
Collectibles can be anything from antique cars to stamps, old coins, baseball cards, or Barbie dolls. When you invest your money in such things, you are hoping to sell them at a profit in the future. There are two reasons this might happen: The things become more desirable as they get older, and people are willing to pay higher prices for them; and inflation robs cash of its buying power, which raises prices across the board.
The trouble with investing in things is they can get lost, stolen, warped, stained, ripped, or damaged by fire, water, wind, or in the case of antique furniture, termites. There is insurance for some of this, but insurance is expensive. Things in general lose value with wear and tear, although they also increase in value as they get older. That’s the constant hope of collectors, that the age of the thing will raise its price more than the condition of the thing will lower it.
Collecting is a very specialized business, and successful collectors are experts not only in the items they collect, but also in the market and the prices. There’s a lot to learn. Some of it you can pick up from books, and the rest you get the hard way, by experience.
Lesson one for all potential collectors, particularly young collectors, is that buying a new car is not an investment. The word “investment” showed up in a recent TV ad for a car, but if you see this ad, don’t be swayed by it. Antique cars are investments, if they are kept in a garage and rarely driven, but new cars subjected to everyday use lose their value faster, even, than money does. Nothing will eat up your bankroll faster than a car will—unless it’s a boat. Don’t make the mistake that Bigbelly did.
3. Houses or Apartments
Buying a house or an apartment is the most profitable purchase most people ever make. A house has two big advantages over other types of investments. You can live in it while you wait for the price to go up, and you buy it on borrowed money. Let’s review the math.
Houses have a habit of increasing in value at the same rate as inflation. On that score, you’re breaking even. But you don’t pay for the house all at once. Typically, you pay 20 percent up front (the down payment), and a bank lends you the other 80 percent (the mortgage). You pay interest on this mortgage for as long as it takes you to pay back the loan. That could be as long as fifteen or thirty years, depending on the deal you make with the bank.
Meanwhile, you’re living in the house, and you won’t get scared out of it by a bad housing market, the way you might get scared out of stocks when the stock market has a crash or a correction. As long as you stay there, the house increases in value, but you aren’t paying any taxes on the gains. And once in your lifetime, the government gives you a tax break when you do sell the house.
If you buy a $100,000 house that increases in value by 3 percent a year, after the first year it will be worth $3,000 more than what you paid for it. At first glance, you’d say that’s a 3 percent return, the same as you might get from a savings account. But here’s the secret that makes a house such a great investment. Of the $100,000 it takes to buy the house, only $20,000 comes out of your pocket. So, at the end of year one, you’ve got a $3,000 profit on an investment of $20,000. Instead of a 3 percent return, the house is giving you a 15 percent return.
Along the way, of course, you have to pay the interest on the mortgage, but you get a tax break for that (unless the government decides to take away the tax break), and as you pay off the mortgage, you’re increasing your investment in the house. This is a form of savings that people often don’t think about.
Fifteen years up the road, if you’ve got a fifteen-year mortgage and you stay in the house that long, the mortgage is paid off, and the house you bought for $100,000 is worth $155,797, thanks to the annual 3 percent increase in the price.
Let’s pick up where we left off with Joe Bigbelly and Sally Cartwheel. They’ve both moved up to assistant manager at WalMart, making identical salaries. Cartwheel is living in her own house, while Bigbelly’s parents have kicked him out of theirs. He would have preferred to buy a house or an apartment on his own, but since he lacked a down payment, he had no choice but to rent an apartment.
Bigbelly’s monthly rent is somewhat lower than Cartwheel’s monthly mortgage payment, plus she has to buy home insurance, pay the lawn service, and make the occasional repair. So Bigbelly has more cash in his pocket at the outset. In theory, he could take this extra cash and invest it in the stock market and build up his assets for the future, but he doesn’t. He spends it on stereo equipment, scuba gear, golf lessons, and so on.
A person who won’t save money to buy an apartment or a house isn’t likely to save money to invest in stocks. It’s routine for families to make sacrifices so they can afford to own a house eventually, but when have you ever heard of a family making sacrifices so it could buy its first mutual fund?
By owning a house, Cartwheel already has gotten into the habit of saving and investing. As long as she’s paying the mortgage, she’s forced to invest in the house, and since she already invested in mutual funds to secure the down payment, there’s a good chance she’ll invest in mutual funds in the future, whenever she has money to spare.
In fifteen years, when her mortgage is paid off, Cartwheel will be living in a valuable asset, and her biggest monthly bill will have disappeared. Bigbelly will have nothing to show for all his rent payments, which will be much higher than they were when he first moved into the apartment. They will also be much higher than the final payment Sally Cartwheel had to make.
4. Bonds
You’ve probably heard newscasters talk about “the bond market,” “the rally in bonds,” or “the decline in bond prices across the board.” Maybe you know people who own bonds. Maybe you’ve wondered, “What is a bond?”
A bond is a glorified IOU. It’s printed on fancy paper with doodles around the border and artwork at the top, but its purpose is no different from the purpose of the IOU that’s scrawled on a napkin. It’s a record of the fact that you’ve loaned your money to somebody else. It shows the amount of the loan and the deadline for paying it back. It gives the interest rate that the borrower has to pay.
Even though it’s called “buying a bond,” when you purchase one, you aren’t really buying anything. You’re simply making a loan. The seller of the bond, also called the issuer, is borrowing your money, and the bond itself is proof that the deal happened.
The biggest seller of bonds in the world is Uncle Sam. Whenever the U.S. government needs extra cash (which these days is all the time), it prints up a new batch. That’s what the $5 trillion national debt is all about—it’s owed to all the people who’ve bought the government’s bonds. Individuals and companies here and abroad, even foreign governments, have loaned the $5 trillion to Uncle Sam. They’ve got the IOUs in their safety deposit boxes to prove it.
Eventually, these people have to be paid back—that’s what the deficit crisis is all about. In the meantime, the government has to pay the interest on the $5 trillion worth of loans—Uncle Sam is going broke trying to keep up with these payments. This is the mess we’ve gotten ourselves into. The government owes so much to so many that more than 15 percent of all the federal taxes goes to paying the interest.
The type of bond that young people are most likely to get involved in is the U.S. Savings Bond. Grandparents are famous for giving savings bonds as gifts to their grandchildren. It’s a round-about way of putting money in their grandchildren’s pockets. Instead of handing them the money directly, the grandparents lend it to the government, by purchasing the bond. Over the years, the government pays back the money, plus interest—not to the grandparents, but to the grandchildren.
The U.S. government is not the only seller of bonds, in spite of its constant need for money. State and local governments also sell bonds to raise cash. So do hospitals and airports, school districts and sports stadiums, public agencies of all kinds, and thousands of companies. Bonds are in abundant supply. They’re for sale in any stockbroker’s office. You can buy them as easily as you can open a savings account or buy a share of stock.
Basically, a bond is quite similar to the CDs and the Treasury bills we’ve already talked about. You buy them for the interest you’ll get, and you know in advance how much interest you’ll be paid and how often, and when you’ll get your original investment back. The main difference between bonds and CDs or Treasury bills is that with CDs and Treasuries, you get paid back sooner (the period varies from a few months to a couple of years), and with bonds you get paid back later (you might have to wait five years, ten years, or as long as thirty years).
The longer it takes for bonds to pay off, the greater the risk that inflation will eat up the value of your money before you get it back. That’s why bonds pay a higher rate of interest than the short-term alternatives, such as CDs, savings accounts, or the money market. Investors demand to be rewarded for taking the greater risk.
All else being equal, a thirty-year bond pays more interest than a ten-year bond, which in turn pays more interest than a five-year bond, and so on. The buyers of bonds have to decide how far out they want to go, and whether the extra money they make in interest on, say, a thirty-year bond is worth the risk of having their money tied up for that long. These are difficult decisions.
At current count, more than $8 trillion worth of bonds of all varieties are owned by investors in the United States, making bonds a more popular investment than stocks. Meanwhile, investors also own more than $7 trillion worth of stocks traded on the major exchanges (and that doesn’t count the ones traded in regional or pink-sheets exchanges), and there’s a continuing debate over the merits of one versus the other. Both have their good points and their bad points. Stocks are riskier than bonds, and potentially far more rewarding. To understand why this is true, let’s look at two choices: one where you buy McDonald’s stock, and the other where you buy a McDonald’s bond.
When you buy the stock, you’re an owner of the company with all rights and privileges. McDonald’s makes a bit of a fuss over you. They send you their reports, and they invite you to the annual meetings. They also pay you a bonus, in the form of a dividend. If they have a really good year at their sixteen thousand hamburger stands, they might raise the dividend, so you get an even bigger bonus. But even without the dividend, if McDonald’s sells another zillion Big Macs and all goes well, the stock price will rise. You can sell your stock for more than you paid for it and make money that way.
Nevertheless, there are no guarantees that McDonald’s will prosper, that you’ll get a bonus, or that the stock price will rise. If it falls to less than what you paid for it, McDonald’s won’t reimburse you. They haven’t promised anything, and they aren’t obliged to pay you back. As an owner of the stock, you don’t have a safety net. You must proceed at your own risk.
When you buy a McDonald’s bond, or any bond, for that matter, it’s a much different story. In that case, you’re not an owner. You’re a lender, giving McDonald’s the use of your money for a fixed period of time.
McDonald’s can have the greatest year in hamburger history, and if you’re a bondholder, they won’t even think about sending you a bonus. Companies are constantly raising the dividend on their stock to reward the stockholders, but you’ll never hear of a company raising the interest rates on its bonds to reward the bondholders.
The worst part about being a bondholder is watching the stock go through the roof and knowing that you won’t see a penny of the gain. McDonald’s is a perfect example. Since the 1960s, the stock (adjusted for splits) has soared from $22.50 to $13,570 and investors have made 603 times their money, turning $100 into $60,300 or $1,000 into $603,000. The people who bought McDonald’s bonds were hardly as fortunate. They collected interest payments along the way, but aside from that, they broke even.
If you buy a $10,000 ten-year bond and hold it for ten years, you get your money back plus interest, and nothing more. Actually, you get back much less because of inflation. Let’s say the bond is paying 8 percent a year, and the inflation rate over that ten-year period is 4 percent. Even though you’ve collected $8,000 in interest payments, you’ve lost almost $1,300 to inflation. Your original $10,000 investment is now worth $6,648 after ten years of 4 percent annual inflation. So the whole ten-year investment has left you with less than a 3 percent annual return, and that’s before taxes. If you figure in the taxes, your return approaches zero.
The good thing about a bond is that even though you miss the gain when the stock goes up, you also miss the loss when the stock goes down. If McDonald’s stock had gone from $13,570 to $22.50 instead of the other way around, stockholders would be crying and bondholders would be laughing, because McDonald’s bonds aren’t affected by the stock price. No matter what happens in the stock market, the company must repay its debts to the bondholders on the date when the loans terminate and the bonds “come due.”
That’s why a bond is less risky than a stock. There’s a guarantee attached to it. When you buy a bond, you know in advance exactly how much you’ll be getting in interest payments, and you won’t lie awake nights worrying where the stock price is headed. Your investment is protected, at least more protected than when you buy a stock.
Still, there are three ways you can get hurt by a bond. The first danger occurs if you sell the bond before the due date, when the issuer of the bond must repay you in full. By selling early, you take your chances in the bond market, where the prices of bonds go up and down daily, the same as stocks. So, if you get out of a bond prematurely, you might get less than you paid for it.
The second danger occurs when the issuer of the bond goes bankrupt and can’t pay you back. The chances of this happening depend on who is doing the issuing. The U.S. government, for example, will never go bankrupt—it can print more money whenever it wants. Therefore, the buyers of U.S. government bonds are repaid in full. It’s an ironclad guarantee.
Other issuers of bonds, from hospitals to airports to corporations, can’t always offer such a guarantee. If they go bankrupt, the owners of the bonds can lose a lot of money. Usually, they get something back, but not their entire investment. And sometimes, they lose the whole amount.
When an issuer of a bond fails to make the required payments, it’s called a default. To avoid getting caught in one, smart bond buyers review the financial condition of the issuer of a bond before they consider buying it. Some bonds are insured, which is another way the payments can be guaranteed. Also, there are agencies that give safety ratings to bonds, so potential buyers know in advance which ones are risky and which aren’t. A strong company such as McDonald’s gets a high safety rating—the chances of McDonald’s defaulting on a bond are close to zero. A weaker company that has trouble paying its bills will get a low rating. You’ve heard of junk bonds? These are the bonds that get the lowest ratings of all.
When you buy a junk bond, you’re taking a bigger risk that you won’t get your money back. That’s why junk bonds pay a higher rate of interest than other bonds—the investors are rewarded for taking the extra risk.
Except with the junkiest of junk bonds, defaults are few and far between.
The biggest risk in owning a bond is risk number three: inflation. We’ve already seen how inflation can wreck an investment. With stocks, over the very long term, you can keep up with inflation and make a decent profit to boot. With bonds, you can’t.
5. Stocks
Stocks are likely to be the best investment you’ll ever make, outside of a house. You don’t have to feed a stock, the way you do if you invest in horses or prize cats. It doesn’t break down the way a car does, nor does it leak the way a house can. You don’t have to keep it mowed, the way you do with real estate. You can lose a baseball card collection to fire, theft, or flood, but you can’t lose a stock. The certificate that proves you own a stock might be stolen or burned up, but if that happens, the company will send you another one.
When you buy a bond, you’re only making a loan, but when you invest in a stock, you’re buying a piece of a company. If the company prospers, you share in the prosperity. If it pays a dividend, you’ll receive it, and if it raises the dividend, you’ll reap the benefit. Hundreds of successful companies have a habit of raising their dividends year after year. This is a bonus for owning stocks that makes them all the more valuable. They never raise the interest rate on a bond!
You can see from the chart below that stocks have outdone other investments going back as far as anybody can remember. Maybe they won’t prove themselves in a week or a year, but they’ve always come through for the people who own them.


Annual Rates of Return (%) of Selected Investments


 
1945–1994
1984–1994
1989–1994


S&P 500*
11.9
14.4
  8.7


Small Stocks
14.4
10.0
11.8


U.S. Treasury Bills
  4.7
  5.8
  4.7


Inflation
  4.4
  3.6
  3.5


U.S. Govt Bond
  5.0
11.9
  8.3


Intermediate Term Govt Bond
  5.6
  9.4
  7.5


Corporate Bond
  5.3
11.6
  8.4


Residential Housing
  N/A
  4.3
  2.9


Gold (from 1977)
  6.4
  0.7
  0.1


Silver (from 1950)
  4.6
(4.2)
(0.8)


Japanese Stocks (Tokyo Stock Exch, from 1973)
14.6
16.6
(4.2)


Foreign Bonds (J.P. Morgan Global Govt Bond)
  N/A
  N/A
  9.1


Emerging Market Stocks (Morgan Stanley Emerging Market Fund)
  N/A
  N/A
22.7


* The Standard & Poor’s 500 is a well-known index of 500 stocks that is often used as a barometer of the stock market in general.
Sources: Haver, Ibbotson Annual Yearbook, Datastream, The Economist Created by: Equity Research Infocenter—JL
More than 50 million Americans have discovered the fun and profit in owning stocks. That’s one out of five. These aren’t all whizbangs who drive Rolls-Royces like the people you see on Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous. Most of these shareholders are regular folks with regular jobs: teachers, bus drivers, doctors, carpenters, students, your friends and relatives, the neighbors in the next apartment or down the block.
You don’t have to be a millionaire, or even a thousandaire, to get started investing in stocks. Even if you have no money to invest, because you’re out of a job or you’re too young to have a job, or there’s nothing left over after you pay the bills, you can make a game out of picking stocks. This can be excellent training at no risk.
People who train to be pilots are put into flight simulators, where they can learn from their mistakes without crashing a real plane. You can create your own investment simulator and learn from your mistakes without losing real money. A lot of investors who might have benefited from this sort of training had to learn the hard way, instead.
Friends or relatives may have warned you to stay away from stocks. They may have told you that if you buy a stock you’re throwing your money away, because the stock market is no more reliable than a casino. They may even have the losses to prove it. The chart on page 110 refutes their argument. If stocks are such a gamble, why have they paid off so handsomely over so many decades?
When people consistently lose money in stocks, it’s not the fault of the stocks. Stocks in general go up in value over time. In ninety-nine cases out of one hundred where investors are chronic losers, it’s because they don’t have a plan. They buy at a high price, then they get impatient or they panic, and they sell at a lower price during one of those inevitable periods when stocks are taking a dive. Their motto is “Buy high and sell low,” but you don’t have to follow it. Instead, you need a plan.
The rest of this book is devoted to understanding stocks and the companies that issue them. This is introductory material, which we hope will lay the groundwork for a lifetime of investing.
Invest for the Long Term
You don’t have to be a math whiz to be a successful investor in stocks. You don’t have to be an accountant, although learning the basics of accounting may help. You don’t have to be a Phi Beta Kappa or a member of the National Honor Society or Mensa. If you can read and do fifth-grade arithmetic, you have the basic skills. The next thing you need is a plan.
The stock market is one place where being young gives you a big advantage over the old folks. Your parents or your grandparents may know more about stocks than you do—most likely, they’ve learned the hard way, by making mistakes. Surely, they’ve got more money to invest than you do, but you’ve got the most valuable asset of all—time.
The following illustration shows how time can do wonders for your pocketbook. The earlier you start investing, the better. In fact, a small amount of money invested early is worth more in the long run than a larger amount invested later.