Have you heard the old expression “Time is money”? It ought to be revised to “Time makes money.” It’s a winning combination. Let time and money do the work, while you sit back and await the results.
    If you’ve decided to invest in stocks above all else, avoiding bonds, you’ve eliminated a major source of confusion, plus you’ve made the intelligent choice. When we say this, we’re assuming you are a long-term investor who is determined to stick with stocks no matter what. People who need to pull their money out in one year, two years, or five years shouldn’t invest in stocks in the first place. There’s simply no telling what stock prices will do from one year to the next. When the stock market has one of its “corrections” and stocks lose money, the people who have to get their money out may be going home with a lot less than they put in.
Twenty years or longer is the right time frame. That’s long enough for stocks to rebound from the nastiest corrections on record, and it’s long enough for the profits to pile up. Eleven percent a year in total return is what stocks have produced in the past. Nobody can predict the future, but after twenty years at 11 percent, an investment of $10,000 is magically transformed into $80,623.
To get that 11 percent, you have to pledge your loyalty to stocks for better or for worse—this is a marriage we’re talking about, a marriage between your money and your investments. You can be a genius at analyzing which companies to buy, but unless you have the patience and the courage to hold on to the shares, you’re an odds-on favorite to become a mediocre investor. It’s not always brainpower that separates good investors from bad; often, it’s discipline.
Stick with your stocks no matter what, ignore all the “smart advice” that tells you to do otherwise, and “act like a dumb mule.” That was the advice given fifty years ago by a former stockbroker, Fred Schwed, in his classic book Where Are the Customers’ Yachts? and it still applies today.
People are always looking around for the secret formula for winning on Wall Street, when all along, it’s staring them in the face: Buy shares in solid companies with earning power and don’t let go of them without a good reason. The stock price going down is not a good reason.
It’s easy enough to stand in front of a mirror and swear that you’re a long-term investor who will have no trouble staying true to your stocks. Ask any group of people how many are long-term investors, and you’ll see a unanimous show of hands. These days, it’s hard to find anybody who doesn’t claim to be a long-term investor, but the real test comes when stocks take a dive.
More details on these so-called crashes, corrections, and bear markets can be found later in this book. Nobody can predict exactly when a bear market will arrive (although there’s no shortage of Wall Street types who claim to be skilled fortune-tellers in this regard). But when one does arrive, and the prices of nine out of ten stocks drop in unison, many investors naturally get scared.
They hear the TV newscasters using words like “disaster” and “calamity” to describe the situation, and they begin to worry that stock prices will hurtle toward zero and their investment will be wiped out. They decide to rescue what’s left of their money by putting their stocks up for sale, even at a loss. They tell themselves that getting something back is better than getting nothing back.
It’s at this point that large crowds of people suddenly become short-term investors, in spite of their claims about being long-term investors. They let their emotions get the better of them, and they forget the reason they bought stocks in the first place—to own shares in good companies. They go into a panic because stock prices are low, and instead of waiting for the prices to come back, they sell at these low prices. Nobody forces them to do this, but they volunteer to lose money.
Without realizing it, they’ve fallen into the trap of trying to time the market. If you told them they were “market timers” they’d deny it, but anybody who sells stocks because the market is up or down is a market timer for sure.
A market timer tries to predict the short-term zigs and zags in stock prices, hoping to get out with a quick profit. Few people can make money at this, and nobody has come up with a foolproof method. In fact, if anybody had figured out how to consistently predict the market, his name (or her name) would already appear at the top of the list of richest people in the world, ahead of Warren Buffett and Bill Gates.
Try to time the market and you invariably find yourself getting out of stocks at the moment they’ve hit bottom and are turning back up, and into stocks when they’ve gone up and are turning back down. People think this happens to them because they’re unlucky. In fact, it happens to them because they’re attempting the impossible. Nobody can outsmart the market.
People also think it’s dangerous to be invested in stocks during crashes and corrections, but it’s only dangerous if they sell. They forget the other kind of danger—not being invested in stocks on those few magical days when prices take a flying leap.
It’s amazing how a few key days can make or break your entire investment plan. Here’s a typical example. During a prosperous five-year stretch in the 1980s, stock prices gained 26.3 percent a year. Disciplined investors who stuck to the plan doubled their money and then some. But most of these gains occurred on forty days out of the 1,276 days the stock markets were open for business during those five years. If you were out of stocks on those forty key days, attempting to avoid the next correction, your 26.3 percent annual gain was reduced to 4.3 percent. A CD in a bank would have returned more than 4.3 percent, and at less risk.
So to get the most out of stocks, especially if you’re young and time is on your side, your best bet is to invest money you can afford to set aside forever, then leave that money in stocks through thick and thin. You’ll suffer through the bad times, but if you don’t sell any shares, you’ll never take a real loss. By being fully invested, you’ll get the full benefit of those magical and unpredictable stretches when stocks make most of their gains.
Mutual Funds
At this point, we’ve come to two conclusions: First, you should invest in stocks, if at all possible, and second, you should hold on to these stocks as long as the companies behind them continue to do well. The next thing you have to decide is whether to pick your own stocks or let somebody else do it.
There’s a lot to be said for taking the easy way out, especially if you are bored by numbers and couldn’t care less what happens to Kodak’s earnings, or whether Nike makes a better shoe than Reebok.
That’s why mutual funds were invented—for people who want to own stocks but can’t be bothered with the details. In a mutual fund, your only job is to send money, which gives you a certain number of shares in the fund. Your money is lumped together with a lot of other people’s money (you never actually meet them but you know they are out there). The whole pile is handed over to the expert who manages the fund.
At least you hope there’s an expert in charge, because you’re counting on him or her to figure out which stocks to buy and when to buy them and sell them.
A mutual fund has another advantage, besides having a manager who does all the work. It invests in many companies at once. As soon as you sign up with a fund, you automatically become an owner of the dozens, even hundreds of companies the fund has already bought. Whether you invest fifty dollars or $50 million, you still own a piece of all the stocks in the fund. This is less risky than owning only one stock, which if you’re a novice investor might be all you could afford.
A typical fund allows you to get started with as little as fifty or one hundred dollars, with the chance to buy more shares whenever extra cash comes into your possession. How much and how often you contribute is up to you. You can take the guesswork out of it by investing the same amount every month, three months, or six months. The interval isn’t important, as long as you keep up the routine.
Can you see the wisdom in this sort of installment plan? Your worries about where the stock market is headed from one year to the next are over. In a correction or a bear market, the shares in your favorite fund will get cheaper, so you’ll be buying more at low prices, and in a bull market you’ll be buying more at high prices. Over time, the costs will even out and your profits will mount.
As an added attraction, many funds pay a cash bonus in the form of a dividend. It comes your way on a regular basis—four times a year, twice a year, or even twelve times a year. You can spend this money however you want—on movie tickets, compact disks, sunglasses—to reward yourself for investing in the fund. Or you can do yourself a bigger favor by using the dividend to buy more shares.
This is called the “reinvestment option,” and once you’ve chosen it, your dividends are reinvested automatically. The more shares you own, the more you stand to gain from the future success of the fund, which is why your money will grow faster if you throw the dividends into the pot.
You can follow your fund’s progress by looking it up in the newspaper, the same way you look up Disney or Wendy’s. The price of a share in a fund goes up and down every day, and it moves more or less in lockstep with the prices of all the stocks in the fund’s portfolio. That’s why you want to invest in funds with managers who have the knack for picking the right stocks. You’re rooting for the managers, because the better they do, the better you do.
Saying good-bye to a fund is easy. You can take your money out any time you want—either all of it or some of it—and the fund will send you a check immediately. But unless there’s an emergency and you have a sudden need for quick cash, getting out of a fund should be the last thing on your mind. Your goal is to sell your shares for a much higher price than the price you paid to acquire them, and the longer you stick with the fund, the bigger your potential profit.
Along with the chance to share in the gains from a fund, you’re also paying a share of the management fees and the fund’s expenses. These fees and expenses are paid out of the fund’s assets, and they generally cost investors between 0.5 percent and 2 percent annually, depending on the fund. That means when you own a mutual fund, you’re starting out every year somewhere between 0.5 percent and 2 percent in the hole, and on top of that, the fund must pay a commission whenever it buys or sells a stock.
The managers are expected to do well in spite of the expenses, by being clever and picking the right stocks.
These professional stockpickers have an advantage over the millions of amateurs who do their own picking. It’s a hobby for amateurs, but for the pros, it’s a full-time job. They go to business school to learn how to study companies and decipher financial reports. They’ve got libraries, high-performance computers, and a research staff to back them up. If there’s important news out of a company, they hear it right away.
On the other hand, professional stockpickers also have limitations that make it easy to compete with them. You and I could never beat a professional pool player at a game of billiards, and we couldn’t do brain surgery better than a professional brain surgeon, but we have a decent chance of beating the pros on Wall Street.
They are part of the herd of fund managers that tends to graze in the same pastures of stocks. They feel comfortable buying the same stocks the other managers are buying, and they avoid wandering off into unfamiliar territory. So they miss the exciting prospects that can be found outside the boundaries of the herd.
In particular, they overlook the newer, inexperienced companies that often turn out to be star performers in business and the biggest winners in the stock market.
Fund History
The earliest mutual fund on record was started in 1822 by King William I of the Netherlands. The idea spread to Scotland, where the thrifty Scots took an immediate fancy to it. The Scots were regarded as a frugal lot, who frowned on frivolous purchases. They managed to save enormous quantities of money, which could be invested in the newly created funds.
Eventually, the inhabitants of the United States got wind of mutual funds, but they didn’t catch on here until the end of the nineteenth century. In those days, mutual funds were called “stock trusts”—the earliest on record being the New York Stock Trust launched in 1889. The stock trusts evolved into “investment companies,” which were popular in the 1920s.
The first homegrown mutual fund to describe itself that way was the Shaw-Loomis-Sayles fund. It appeared on the scene in November 1929, just weeks after the stock market crashed. This was bad timing by the organizers, because stock prices continued to drop until they finally hit bottom in 1932. By 1936, after the dust had settled, half the funds in the country (still called “investment companies”) were out of business.
Investors learned an important lesson: When stocks go down in a heap, funds go down with them. It still applies today. The best fund manager on Wall Street can’t protect you in a crash, whether it’s the Crash of 1929, 1972–73, 1987, 1990, or a future Crash of 2000, 2010, or 2020. Whether you do the investing or a professional does it, there’s no such thing as a crash-proof portfolio.
Eleven years after the Crash of 1929, Congress passed a key piece of legislation, the Investment Company Act of 1940. This law, still on the books today, takes the mystery out of mutual funds. It requires that each fund describe itself in detail, so investors know exactly what they’re getting and how much they have to pay to get it.
Every mutual fund registered in the United States (more than six thousand at present count) has to explain its overall strategy and tell you how risky that is. It has to explain how the money is invested. It has to reveal the contents of its portfolio, listing the biggest holdings by name and how many shares it owns in each.
It has to reveal the management fee, plus any extra fees levied by the management company. It has to report on its gains and losses in previous years, so everybody knows exactly how well or how poorly it has performed in the past.
Along with all these rules that force it to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth, a fund must also follow strict rules on investing. It can’t risk more than 5 percent of its customers’ money on a single stock. This guards against its putting too many eggs in one basket.
Meanwhile, government watchdogs at the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) keep up a constant surveillance, so the funds that might otherwise be tempted to break the rules are held in check by the fear of getting caught. Overall, the fund industry does a good job policing itself, and it maintains a good relationship with the SEC’s tough watchdogs.
Recently, with the support of the SEC, the various groups of funds have undertaken a worthy project. They are trying to eliminate the gobbledygook in their brochures and cut down on the legalese that often goes on for many pages, which few investors ever read. Much of this legalese is put there because the government requires it, but it ends up wasting time, confusing investors, and costing them money. The bill for printing all these pages is paid out of the assets of the fund.
The goal of this new campaign is to produce simpler and shorter explanations that people can understand without having to go to law school. The companies that run funds and the shareholders who invest in funds will both be better off if this campaign succeeds.
After the long period when the public avoided them, mutual funds came back into favor in the late 1960s, when they were sold in neighborhoods across the country by teachers, shopkeepers, clerks, you name it, working part-time on weekends and at night. This led to a poor result, because millions of investors got into funds just in time for the bear market of 1969–73, the worst since the Crash of 1929.
In this extended losing streak for stocks, the prices of some mutual funds dropped 75 percent—more proof that there’s no safety in numbers when it comes to owning shares in a fund. Stunned by their losses, distraught investors made a mad dash for the exits, selling their shares for far less than they had paid, depositing the proceeds in savings accounts, and promising themselves to hang up the phone the next time they got a call from a fund salesman.
For nearly a decade thereafter, it was hard to get anybody to invest money in a stock mutual fund. High-quality funds were left sitting alone as if they had bad breath. Smart fund managers could find plenty of great stocks to buy, and at bargain prices, but without clients, they had no money to buy them with.
As the stock market revived in the 1980s, so did the mutual fund industry. It’s been going gangbusters ever since, with 5,655 funds and counting, and more than thirteen hundred new funds created in the past two years alone. Every other day brings another fund: bond funds, money-market funds, and stock funds, to add to the more than twenty-one hundred stock funds that already exist. If this hectic birthrate keeps up much longer, we’ll soon have more stock funds than stocks.
Buying Funds Now
It would take a whole book in itself to describe the different kinds of stock funds that are out there: the all-purpose funds, single-industry funds, multi-industry, small-company, large-company, pure, hybrid, foreign, domestic, socially conscious, socially unconscious, growth, value, income, and growth-and-income funds. It’s gotten so complicated that there are funds of funds that specialize in buying shares in other funds.
You could stay up day and night studying how to choose the right fund, and you wouldn’t get through half the information that’s been printed on the subject. If all these how-to books, pamphlets, and articles fell on top of you, it would take a rescue squad several hours to pull you out. In fact, so much attention is devoted to picking the right fund in any given year, it could begin to drive people crazy. They’d be happier, more relaxed, and nicer to dogs and children, plus they’d save on psychiatry bills if only they would abandon the search for the absolutely perfect mutual fund.
At the risk of contributing further to the unhealthy fixation on this quest, we present the following bits of advice:
1. You can buy mutual funds directly from the companies that manage them, such as Dreyfus, Fidelity, and Scudder. You can also buy them through a stockbroker, although a broker may not be able to sell you the fund you want.
2. Brokers have to make a living, and they sometimes get a bigger commission for selling the firm’s own products. Convincing you to buy one of the in-house mutual funds may be in their best interest, but not necessarily in yours. Whenever a broker recommends anything, always find out what’s in it for the broker. Ask him or her to provide information on the full range of what’s available. There might be a fund that’s similar to the one the broker is recommending but that has a better record overall.
3. If you’re a long-term investor, ignore all the bond funds and hybrid funds (those invest in a mixture of stocks and bonds) and go for the pure stock funds. Stocks have outperformed bonds in eight of the nine decades in this century (bonds ran a close second in the 1980s, but stocks still did slightly better). In the first half of the 1990s, stocks once again are way ahead of bonds. If you’re not 100 percent invested in stocks, you’re shortchanging yourself in the long run.
4. Picking the right fund isn’t any easier than picking the right auto mechanic, but with a fund, at least you’ve got the record of past performance to guide you. Unless you interview dozens of customers, there’s no simple way of telling whether an auto mechanic is good, bad, or indifferent, but you can find out easily which of these ratings applies to a fund. It all boils down to the annual return. A fund that returned 18 percent a year over the past decade has done better than a similar fund with similar objectives that returned 14 percent. But before you invest in a fund on the strength of its record, make sure the manager who compiled the great record is still in charge.
5. Over time, it’s been more profitable to invest in small companies than in large companies. The successful small companies of today will become the Wal-Marts, Home Depots, and Microsofts of tomorrow. It’s no wonder then that funds that invest in small companies (the so-called small caps) have beaten out the “large cap” funds by a substantial margin. (“Cap” is short for “market capitalization”—the total number of shares issued by a company multiplied by the current share price.) A couple of Wal-Marts is all they need to outperform the competition. That one stock is up more than two-hundred-and-fifty-fold in twenty years.
Since small-cap stocks are generally more volatile than large-cap stocks, a small-cap fund will give you more extreme ups and downs than other types of funds. But if you have a strong stomach and can take the bumps and stay on the ride, you’ll likely do better in small caps.
6. Why take a chance on a rookie fund, when you can invest in a veteran fund that’s been around through several seasons and has turned in an all-star performance? A list of funds that have stayed on top over many years can be found in financial magazines such as Barron’s and Forbes. Twice a year, Barron’s publishes a complete roundup of funds, with the details provided by Lipper Analytical, a high-quality research company run by a prominent fund watcher, Michael Lipper. The Wall Street Journal publishes a similar roundup four times a year.
If you want more information about a particular fund, you can get it from Morningstar, a company that tracks thousands of funds and issues a monthly report. Morningstar ranks all these funds for safety, rates their performance, and tells who the manager is and what stocks are in the portfolio. It’s the best one-stop source in existence today.
7. It doesn’t pay to be a fund jumper. Some investors make a hobby of switching from one fund to another, hopping to the bandwagon of the latest hot performer. This is more trouble than it’s worth. Studies have shown that top-ranked funds from one year rarely repeat their performance the next. Trying to catch the winner is a fool’s errand in which you are likely to end up with a loser. You’re better off picking a fund with an excellent long-term record and sticking with it.
8. In addition to taking the annual expenses out of the shareholders’ assets, some funds charge an entry fee, called a load. These days, the average load is 3 to 4 percent. That means whenever you invest in a fund with a load, you lose 3 to 4 percent of your money right off the bat.
For all the funds that charge an entry fee, there are just as many that don’t. These are the no-loads. As it turns out, the no-loads perform just as well, on average, as the funds with loads. This is one case where paying a cover charge doesn’t necessarily get you into a classier joint.
The longer you stay in a fund, the less important the load becomes. After ten or fifteen years, if the fund does well, you’ll forget you ever paid the 3 or 4 percent load to get into it.
The annual expenses deserve closer attention than the load, because those are taken out of the fund every year. Funds that keep their expenses to a minimum (less than 1 percent) have a built-in advantage over funds that run a bigger tab (2 percent or more). The manager of a high-cost fund is working at a disadvantage. Every year, he or she has to outperform the manager of a low-cost fund by 0.5 to 1.5 percent to produce the same results.
9. The vast majority of funds employ managers whose goal it is to beat the so-called market averages. That’s why you’re paying these managers—to pick stocks that do better than the average stock. But fund managers often fail to beat the averages—in some years more than half the funds do worse. One of the reasons they do worse is that fees and expenses are subtracted from a fund’s performance.
Some investors have given up trying to pick a fund that beats the averages, which has proven to be a difficult task. Instead, they choose a fund that is guaranteed to match the average, no matter what. This kind of fund is called an index fund. It doesn’t need a manager. It runs on automatic pilot. It simply buys all the stocks in a particular index and holds on to them.
There is no fuss, no experts to pay, no management fees to speak of, no commissions for getting into and out of different stocks, and no decisions to make. For instance, an S&P 500 Index fund buys all five hundred stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index. This S&P 500 Index is a well-known market average, so when you invest in such a fund, you’ll always get an average result, which based on recent performance will be a better result than you’d get in many of the managed funds.
Or, if you decide to invest in a “small cap” fund to take advantage of the big potential payoffs from small companies, you can buy a fund that tracks a small-stock index, such as the Russell 2,000. That way, your money will be spread out among the two thousand stocks in the Russell Index.
Another possibility is to put some of your money into an S&P 500 Index fund to get the gains from the larger companies, and the rest in a small-stock index fund to get the gains from the smaller companies. That way, you’ll never have to read another article about how to pick a winning mutual fund, and you’ll end up doing better than some of the people who study the situation very carefully, and then put themselves into funds that fail to beat the averages.
Picking Your Own Stocks
If you have the time and the inclination, you can embark on a thrilling lifetime adventure: picking your own stocks. This is a lot more work than investing in a mutual fund, but you can derive a great deal of satisfaction from picking your own stocks. Over time, perhaps you’ll do better than most of the funds.
Not all your stocks will go up—no stockpicker in history has ever had a 100 percent success rate. Warren Buffett has made mistakes, and Peter Lynch could fill several notebooks with the stories of his. But a few big winners a decade is all you need. If you own ten stocks, and three of them are big winners, they will more than make up for the one or two losers and the six or seven stocks that have done just OK.
If you can manage to find a few triples in your lifetime—stocks that have increased threefold over what you paid for them—you’ll never lack for spending money, no matter how many losers you pick along the way. And once you get the hang of how to follow a company’s progress, you can put more money into the successful companies and reduce your stake in the flops.
You may not triple your money in a stock very often, but you only need a few triples in a lifetime to build up a sizeable fortune. Here’s the math: if you start out with $10,000 and manage to triple it five times, you’ve got $2.4 million, and if you triple it ten times, you’ve got $590 million, and 13 times, you’re the richest person in America.
Actually, there’s nothing to keep you from investing in mutual funds and buying your own stocks as well. Many investors do both. Much of the advice in the mutual fund section—the advantages of starting early, of having a plan, of sticking to the plan and not worrying about crashes and corrections—also applies to the portfolio of stocks you pick on your own. Two problems confront you right away: How do I figure out which stocks to pick? Where do I get the money to buy them? Since it’s dangerous to put money into stocks before you figure out how to pick them, you should put yourself through some practice drills before you risk your cash.
You’d be surprised how many people lose money by investing in stocks before they know the first thing about them! It happens all the time. A person goes through life with no experience in investing, then suddenly receives a lump-sum retirement benefit and throws it all into the stock market, blind, when he or she can’t tell a dividend from a divot. There ought to be some formal training for this, the way they have drivers’ ed in school. We don’t put people on the highway without giving them a few lessons in the parking lot and teaching them the rules of the road.
If nobody else is going to train you, at least you can put yourself through training, trying out various strategies on paper, to begin to get a feel for the way different kinds of stock behave. Again, a young person has an advantage. You have the luxury of experimenting with imaginary investments, at least for a while, because you have many decades ahead of you. By the time you have the money to invest, you’ll be fully prepared to do it for real.
You’ve heard of fantasy baseball, where you pick an imaginary team from the major-league rosters to see how your team’s batting average, home run production, and so forth, measure up against the real teams, or against other fantasy teams? You can train for stocks with a fantasy portfolio. Take an imaginary bankroll—$100,000, perhaps, or $1 million if you’re a big spender—and use it to buy shares in your favorite companies. If, for instance, your five favorite companies are Disney, Nike, Microsoft, Ben & Jerry’s, and Pepsi, you can split $100,000 five ways and invest a mythical $20,000 in each. Choosing April 21, 1995, as your starting date, your fantasy investment lineup looks like this:

    
    
    

 
Stock Prices 4/21/95
Number of Shares You Get for $20,000 (Rounded Off to Nearest Share)


Disney
543/4
  365


Nike
731/8
  274


Pepsi
411/4
  485


Ben & Jerry’s
125/8
1,584


Microsoft
  75
  267


Once you’ve chosen your stocks and written down the prices, you can track your gains and losses just as you would if you’d put in hard cash. You can compare your results to the results your parents are getting in their real investments (if they have any), or to the results of various mutual funds, or to other mythical portfolios your friends have made up.
Schools across the country have brought fantasy stockpicking into the classroom, with The Stock Market Game, sponsored and distributed by The Securities Industry Foundation for Economic Education. More than 600,000 students played the game during the 1994/1995 school year.
They divide into teams, and each team has to decide which stocks to buy with its mythical bankroll. The game takes about ten weeks from start to finish. Results are tallied, and the team whose stocks have gone up the most at the end of the period wins the game. The winning teams in each school compete with the winners from other schools in local, county, and regional or state competitions.
Playing The Stock Market Game can be fun as well as educational, as long as the players are taught the basics of investing and don’t take the results too seriously. The problem with this sort of training is that over thirteen weeks, twenty-six weeks, or even a year, what happens to stock prices is largely a matter of luck. The practice sessions don’t last long enough to give you a true test. A stock can be a loser in thirteen weeks, but a big winner in three years, or five years. Or it can be a winner in thirteen weeks but a loser down the road.
Stocks that do well in the long run belong to companies that do well in the long run. The key to successful investing is finding successful companies. To get the most out of your training sessions, you have to do more than follow the prices of the stocks. You have to learn as much as possible about the companies you’ve chosen and what makes them tick.
This brings us to the five basic methods people use to pick a stock. Here’s the rundown on each, beginning with the most ridiculous and ending with the most enlightened.
1. Darts. The lowest form of stockpicking. You throw a dart at the stock page and wherever it lands, you buy that stock. Or you close your eyes and use your finger as the dart. Maybe you’ll get lucky and your finger will hit on a stock that does well—but maybe you won’t.
The best thing you can say about the dart method is that it doesn’t take much work. If you’re inclined to pick stocks at random, you’ll be doing yourself a favor by avoiding the whole business and investing in mutual funds.
2. Hot tips. The second-lowest form of stockpicking, where somebody else tells you to buy a stock that’s a cinch to go up. It could be your best friend, your English teacher, your uncle Harry, the plumber, the auto mechanic, or the gardener. Or maybe you overhear the tip on a bus. For some reason, overhearing a tip gets people more excited than if the tip was meant for them.
It’s possible that Uncle Harry is directly involved with a certain company and knows what he’s talking about. That sort of informed tip can be useful—a clue that’s worth investigating further. But the dangerous kind of hot tip is based on nothing but hot air. Here’s a typical example: “Home Shopping Network. The smart money is accumulating this stock. Buy right away, before it’s too late. It looks like that sucker’s going up.”
People who won’t buy a fifty-dollar toaster oven without checking several stores for the best price will throw thousands of dollars at a hot tip such as “Home Shopping Network.” They do this because they can’t stand to miss out on all the profit they’ll “lose” if they ignore the tip and the Home Shopping stock quadruples. The truth is, if they don’t buy Home Shopping and it quadruples, they haven’t lost a penny.
People never lose money on stocks they don’t own. They only lose money if they buy Home Shopping and it goes down and they sell it for less than they paid for it.
3. Educated tips. You get these from experts who appear on TV or are quoted in newspapers and magazines. There’s a constant stream of educated tips flowing out of fund managers, investment advisors, and other Wall Street gurus. You’re not the only person who’s been let in on these educated tips. Millions of readers and listeners are hearing the same thing you are.
Nevertheless, if you can’t resist acting on a tip, you might as well take a tip from an expert and ignore Uncle Harry’s tip. There’s a decent chance the expert has done enough homework to form an educated opinion, whereas Uncle Harry doesn’t know what he’s talking about, beyond “It looks like that sucker’s going up.”
The problem with expert tips is that when the expert changes his mind, you have no way of finding that out—unless he goes back on TV to inform the viewers and you happen to catch the show. Otherwise, you’ll be holding on to the stock because you think the expert likes it, long after he’s stopped liking it.
4. The broker’s buy list. Stockbrokers of the “full-service” variety are never shy about giving their recommendations on what stocks you should buy. Often, these recommendations do not come from the broker’s own head. They come from the analysts who work behind the scenes at the head office, usually in New York. These are well-trained Sherlocks whose job it is to snoop into the affairs of companies or groups of companies. They issue buy signals and sell signals based on the evidence they dredge up.
The brokerage firm collects the buy signals from its analysts and puts them on a buy list, which is sent out to all the brokers, including yours—if you have a broker. Usually, the buy list is divided into categories: stocks for conservative investors, stocks for aggressive investors, stocks that pay dividends, and so forth.
You can build an excellent portfolio by working with a broker to pick stocks from the buy list. That way, you can rely on the brokerage firm’s research and still get to choose which of the “buys” you like best. This has one big advantage over relying on educated tips. If the brokerage firm changes its mind and moves one of your stocks from the buy list to the sell list, your broker will inform you of the fact. If he doesn’t, then put the broker on your sell list.
5. Doing your own research. This is the highest form of stock-picking. You choose the stock because you like the company, and you like the company because you’ve studied it inside and out. Maybe you already did that with your five favorite companies in your fantasy portfolio, as in the example of Disney, Nike, Ben & Jerry’s, Pepsi, and Microsoft shown on page 127.
The more you learn about investing in companies, the less you have to rely on other people’s opinions, and the better you can evaluate other people’s tips. You can decide for yourself what stocks to buy and when to buy them.
You’ll need two kinds of information: the kind you get by keeping your eyes peeled and the kind you get by studying the numbers. The first kind, you can begin to gather every time you walk into a McDonald’s, a Sunglass Hut International, or any other store that’s owned by a publicly traded company. And if you work in the store, so much the better.
You can see for yourself whether the operation is efficient or sloppy, overstaffed or understaffed, well-organized or chaotic. You can gauge the morale of your fellow employees. You get a sense of whether management is reckless or careful with money.
If you’re out front with the customers, you can size up the crowd. Are they lining up at the cash register, or does the place look empty? Are they happy with the merchandise, or do they complain a lot? These little details can tell you a great deal about the quality of the parent company itself. Have you ever seen a messy Gap or an empty McDonald’s? The employees at any of the Gap outlets or the McDonald’s franchises could have noticed long ago how fantastically successful these operations have been and invested their spare cash accordingly.
A store doesn’t have to fall apart to lose customers. It will lose customers when another store comes along that offers better merchandise and better service, for the same prices or lower prices. Employees are among the first to know when a competitor is luring the clients away. There’s nothing to stop them from investing in the competitor.
Even if you don’t have a job in a publicly traded company, you can see what’s going on from the customer angle. Every time you shop in a store, eat a hamburger, or buy new sunglasses, you’re getting valuable input. By browsing around, you can see what’s selling and what isn’t. By watching your friends, you know which computers they’re buying, which brand of soda they’re drinking, which movies they’re watching, whether Reeboks are in or out. These are all important clues that can lead you to the right stocks.
You’d be surprised how many adults fail to follow up on such clues. Millions of people work in industries where they come in daily contact with potential investments and never take advantage of their front-row seat. Doctors know which drug companies make the best drugs, but they don’t always buy the drug stocks. Bankers know which banks are the strongest and have the lowest expenses and make the smartest loans, but they don’t necessarily buy the bank stocks. Store managers and the people who run malls have access to the monthly sales figures, so they know for sure which retailers are selling the most merchandise. But how many mall managers have enriched themselves by investing in specialty retail stocks?
Once you start looking at the world through a stockpicker’s eyes, where everything is a potential investment, you begin to notice the companies that do business with the companies that got your attention in the first place. If you work in a hospital, you come into contact with companies that make sutures, surgical gowns, syringes, beds and bed pans, X-ray equipment, EKG machines; companies that help the hospital keep its costs down; companies that write the health insurance; companies that handle the billing. The grocery store is another hotbed of companies: dozens of them are represented in each aisle.
You also begin to notice when a competitor is doing a better job than the company that hired you. When people were lining up to buy Chrysler minivans, it wasn’t just the Chrysler salesmen who realized Chrysler was on its way to making record profits. It was also the Buick salesmen down the block, who sat around their empty showroom and realized that a lot of Buick customers must have switched to Chrysler.
This brings us to the numbers. That a company makes a popular product doesn’t mean you should automatically buy the stock. There’s a lot more you have to know before you invest. You have to know if the company is spending its cash wisely or frittering it away. You have to know how much it owes to the banks. You have to know if the sales are growing, and how fast. You have to know how much money it earned in past years, and how much it can expect to earn in the future. You have to know if the stock is selling at a fair price, a bargain price, or too high a price.
You have to know if the company is paying a dividend, and if so, how much of a dividend, and how often it is raised. Earnings, sales, debt, dividends, the price of the stock: These are some of the key numbers stockpickers must follow.
People go to graduate school to learn how to read and interpret these numbers, so this is not a subject that can be covered in depth in a primer such as this one. The best we can do is to give you a glimpse at the basic elements of a company’s finances, so you can begin to see how the numbers fit together. You’ll find this information in Appendix Two: Reading the Numbers—How to Decipher a Balance Sheet, on page 251.
No investor can possibly hope to keep up with the more than thirteen thousand companies whose stocks are traded on the major exchanges in the U.S. markets today. That’s why amateurs and pros alike are forced to cut down on their options by specializing in one kind of company or another. For instance, some investors buy stocks only in companies that have a habit of raising their dividends. Others look for companies whose earnings are growing by at least 20 percent a year.
You can specialize in a certain industry, such as electric utilities or restaurants or banks. You can specialize in small companies or large companies, new companies or old ones. You can specialize in companies that have fallen on hard times and are trying to make a comeback. (These are called “turnarounds.”) There are hundreds of different ways to skin this cat.
Investing is not an exact science, and no matter how hard you study the numbers and how much you learn about a company’s past performance, you can never be sure about its future performance. What will happen tomorrow is always a guess. Your job as an investor is to make educated guesses and not blind ones. Your job is to pick stocks and not pay too much for them, then to keep watching for good news or bad news coming out of the companies you own. You can use your knowledge to keep the risks to a minimum.
Owning Stocks for Real
You can play stock-market games from morning till night, but there’s no substitute for the thrill of owning real shares. People remember their first shares the way they remember their first kiss. No matter how many dozens of companies you’ll own in the future, you never get over the first.
At this point, if anything is holding you back, it has to be money. Young people have the time to invest, but they don’t always have the cash. It’s not just any cash that can safely be put into stocks; it’s cash you can afford to live without for many years while it goes forth and multiplies. If you have a part-time job and can afford to invest a portion of your paycheck, so much the better. If not, perhaps you can drop some hints to family members around the holidays.
Here’s where parents, grandparents, aunts, and uncles can play a leading role. The greatest source of investment capital for young people is relatives. When they ask what you want for your birthday, Christmas, Hanukkah, and so forth, tell them you want stocks. Let them know that if it comes down to a choice between owning a new pair of Nikes or owning a share of Nike, which costs about the same amount as the shoes, you’d rather have the share.
This is guaranteed to impress most adults. They’ll be amazed by your foresight and your maturity, and your ratings will soar in the family popularity polls. If they own shares themselves, they can get you started by simply transferring one share, or many shares, over to you. The paperwork is no problem, and they don’t have to pay a fee or a commission to do this. Thousands of young people in each generation are introduced to investing in this fashion, by older people giving them their first stocks. A steady stream of shares trickles down from grandparents to their grandchildren.
Many grandparents have gotten into the habit of giving savings bonds instead of stocks. If you have grandparents of this type, it’s in your best interest to show them the chart on page 110, so they realize how much better off you’d be if they dispensed with the savings bonds and sent you shares of good companies at every opportunity.
While small numbers of shares are routinely handed down from parents or grandparents, it’s been difficult for young people to buy small numbers of shares on their own. Until recently, in fact, young investors have been discouraged from buying the one share or few shares that would get them started investing. Two barriers stand in the way: First, most stock transactions are handled by brokers, and you can’t open your own brokerage account until you’re twenty-one years old, and second, most brokers charge minimum commissions, which range from $25 to $40. If you’re buying one share of Pepsi for $47 and you have to pay the broker a $40 fee, the commission is almost as expensive as the share. No successful investor can afford to pay $87 for a $47 stock.
This sad state of affairs is changing, as companies have begun to sell small quantities of their own shares directly to the public, bypassing the brokers. After all, if McDonald’s can sell you a hamburger, why shouldn’t it be allowed to sell you its stock?
Already eighty companies have adopted a so-called direct investment program in which individuals can purchase a few shares and pay significantly lower commissions than the deepest discount broker, and in some cases, pay nothing at all. It’s the best thing Wall Street has done for young people since the New York Stock Exchange invited the Beatles onto the floor in the 1960s. According to Jim Volpe, a vice-president at the First Chicago Trust Company and a spearhead of the direct investment campaign, at least 850 more companies have said they would be delighted to join the eighty that already are selling the shares directly to the public and the list is growing. (To obtain a copy of this list, call 1-900-225-8585.) The legal wrinkles are being ironed out.
You probably won’t be able to buy just one share via direct investment, because most companies are requiring a minimum purchase of $250 to $1,000. Depending on which company you want to own, you’ll have to save up your money until you’ve got the $250 or whatever it takes, but that’s a minor drawback compared to the benefit of paying a significantly lower commission.
The best part is, once you’ve made your initial purchase, you can continue to buy shares directly from the company, whenever you want, and without paying a penny in commissions. And whenever the company pays a dividend, yours is automatically converted into more shares through the dividend reinvestment plan. In most cases, you’re dealing directly with the company’s transfer agent, without having to get involved with a stockbroker.
Keep an eye out for the news of this exciting new program, which will help put stocks into the hands of millions of investors who’ve been shut out of the market.
If you’re still attached to the idea of buying one share at a time, there’s a program that allows you to do it. But first your family has to join the National Association of Investors Corporation (NAIC). The NAIC is the support group for hundreds of investment clubs around the country. The address is 711 West Thirteen Mile Road, Madison Heights, MI, 48071, and the phone number is 1-810-583-6242.
As of January 1996 a membership costs thirty-five dollars a year. Individual club members or households pay fourteen dollars a year, which gives them an automatic subscription to a monthly magazine called Better Investing with all kinds of useful information that will help you become a better stockpicker. Most of this material is geared to experienced investors, but some of it is for beginners, and you can learn a lot from it. Aside from the magazine, you get the chance to buy one to ten shares in any one of 151 different companies, and you only have to pay a seven-dollar setup fee per transaction.
The buy-a-share program is designed for kids, although once again, you’ll run into the “age of majority” problem. Depending on the laws in the state where you live, you have to be eighteen or twenty-one to make the purchase on your own. Otherwise, a parent or guardian can act on your behalf—you’re going to need one or the other to sign up for the club membership, anyway.
The program works as follows. The NAIC provides you with the names of all 151 companies in which you can buy stock. You figure out which ones you want to purchase, and you look up the price per share of each. Then you send your buy list to the NAIC, along with a check for the current price of each stock you’re buying, plus the seven-dollar fee per company, plus an extra $10 “fluctuation.” For instance, if the current price of McDonald’s is $40, you send $57.
Why the extra $10? If the stock price goes up between the day you send in your letter and the day your order is processed, the reserve will be used to cover the difference. In any event, the $10 won’t be wasted. Whatever is left of it after you buy your first share will be used to buy a fraction of another share. So you’ll end up with a share and a sixteenth, or a share and an eighth, or a share and a quarter.
At this point, the NAIC drops out of the relationship, and you deal directly with a representative (the transfer agent) of Wendy’s, or McDonald’s, or whatever company you just bought a share in. Since all the companies on the NAIC list have dividend reinvestment programs, you’ll get additional fractions of shares whenever the company pays a dividend. You can also buy more shares whenever you want, paying a nominal fee, if any.
If you decide to sell your shares, you can either take them to a stockbroker (again, the high commissions might cause you to reject this option) or notify the company’s agent (or agents) in writing. They will dispose of the shares on the next date they’ve scheduled for buying and selling, at whatever the price happens to be at that time. You won’t know exactly what price you’ll get until after the shares are sold.
As long as you’ve gone to the trouble of joining the NAIC, there’s nothing to stop you from joining one of its investment clubs. There are NAIC-member clubs in cities, towns, villages, and schools across the country. Even some prisons have them.
Being in an investment club is like being on a team in the Stock Market Game. The difference is, if you’re in a club, you’re investing real money. Most clubs meet once a month in a member’s house—where the group hashes out the latest stockpicking ideas. Stocks are bought and sold on majority vote.
Each member agrees to invest a fixed amount every month. It could be fifty dollars, or one hundred dollars—whatever the majority decides. As it turns out, most people do better investing in a club than they do on their own. That’s because the club gives them built-in discipline. They can’t sell stocks in a panic, because cooler heads in the group will vote them down. They can’t buy stocks without convincing the group that the stocks are worth buying. This forces them to do their homework. If somebody says, “I’m recommending Disney because I heard a hot tip in the cafeteria line,” he’ll be laughed out of the room.
To become a voting member of an investment club, you have to be at least eighteen, as we’ve already mentioned. But even if you’re not eighteen, you can take part in meetings, recommend stocks, and add your opinion to every discussion. If a club member who’s past the legal investing age is willing to act as your custodian, you can invest your own money through a custodial account.
Buying Shares on the Stock Exchange
If somebody asked you to name five institutions the country couldn’t live without for a month or two, what would you say? The military? The police? Congress? The courts? Electric companies? The water department? Hospitals? Close your eyes for a minute and make your five choices, without looking at the next paragraph.
Did you include the stock market or the bond market in your list? Most people wouldn’t. Wall Street doesn’t immediately come to mind when we think about essential services that give us food, gas, lodging, and a dial tone, and keep the robbers from the door. But the truth is that the financial markets are very important to the well-being of the entire population, and not just the owners of bonds and stocks. The White House could give itself a month off and the world would go on, but without a stock market or a bond market, our whole economic system would seize up.
A company or a person that needed to sell stocks to raise cash would be out of luck, because without a market, there’d be no buyers. The government, $5 trillion in the red already, would have no way to sell bonds to cover its expenses, the way it normally does. It would be left with two choices, both bad. It could print tons of fresh cash, cheapening the value of the dollar and sending prices through the roof, or it could stop paying its bills, leaving millions of Americans without their main source of income. Companies would go bankrupt and banks would go bankrupt. Mobs of people would rush to the nearest branches to rescue their money, only to discover that the banks had run out. Stores would close, factories would close, and millions of people would be thrown out of work. You’d see them wandering the streets, searching the Dumpsters for half-eaten pizzas. Civilization as we know it would come to a quick end, and all because the markets shut down. So these markets are much more important than we give them credit for. We couldn’t survive for long without them.
The Role of the Broker
Let’s say you have the resources to buy enough shares so it makes sense to go the regular route—through a broker. If you’re serious about investing, eventually you will reach this point. The broker is your conduit into the stock markets on which the fate of the world now depends.
Since there’s no way you can walk into a stock market and buy and sell shares on your own, you have to work through a broker at a brokerage house. You’ve heard the names: Merrill Lynch, Smith Barney, Dean Witter, Paine Webber, Charles Schwab, and so forth. Schwab is a living person, and Witter a deceased one, but the rest of these names are composites. There was a Mr. Merrill and a Mr. Lynch, a Mr. Smith and a Mr. Barney, a Mr. Paine and a Mr. Webber, and so forth.
Brokerage houses such as these try to convey the impression they go back very far in history and are quite stable, when in fact they’re always merging and changing their names. It’s a very volatile business with many marriages of convenience, and casualties along the way.
All major brokerage houses handle stocks, bonds, and mutual funds, and they all have to abide by the same rules laid down by the government. But beyond that, they are quite different. The so-called full-service brokers, such as Merrill Lynch or Smith Barney, charge higher commissions than the “discount brokers,” such as Schwab. Then there are the “deep-discount brokers,” that offer fewer services.
The extra money you pay a full-service broker entitles you to the brokerage firm’s advice. As a rule, discount brokers don’t offer advice. They just buy and sell on your instructions.
Here you have another decision to make. Along with picking your first stock, you have to pick a broker. The best way to do this is to talk to several in your area—especially brokers who are recommended by your friends or relatives. If you don’t like the first one you meet, there are plenty of others around. Some are very experienced and know a great deal about investing in stocks, while others have just come out of a short training course and know very little. Having a good relationship with a broker is part of the fun of investing.
Once you’ve settled on the brokerage house and the broker, the next step is opening an account. This brings us to another snag: Unless you’re twenty-one, you can’t have your own account. In most states, the investing age is the same as the drinking age. You can drive a car at sixteen, and join the Army at sixteen, but you’re not allowed to do business with a broker until you’ve reached the “age of majority.”
You can get around this “age of majority” problem by setting up an account with a parent or a guardian who can act as “custodian.” This is like having a restricted driver’s license, where you control the vehicle but there’s an adult in the passenger’s seat to cheer you on, or to yell when you veer off course.
Let’s say you’ve opened the custodial account, signed the necessary papers, given the broker whatever amount of money you intend to invest, and told the broker you’re interested in Disney. A good full-service broker will punch up Disney on the special computer that brokers have and read you the recent news about the company.
He or she will also give you the research reports on Disney prepared by the in-house expert, or analyst, who keeps tabs on the company. If they do their job right, analysts can be very valuable sources of information.
It’s possible that the analyst doesn’t like Disney at the moment, or thinks it’s overpriced, or that low attendance at the theme parks will hurt the company. It’s also possible that your broker will try to talk you out of Disney and into some other stock the brokerage house likes better.
But if you’ve done your homework and you still think Disney is a good buy, then you might as well stick to your guns and insist on buying it. After all, it’s your money.
The next thing to consider is the price you want to pay for Disney. Again, you have a choice to make. You can buy a stock “at the market,” which means you’ll get whatever the price happens to be at the moment your order is sent to Wall Street. Or you can put in a “limit order” for a specific price and hope somebody will take you up on it. That’s the chance you take with limit orders: You are waiting to buy at a certain price, which you may or may not get.
Let’s say your broker has consulted on his computer and informed you that Disney is trading at fifty dollars a share. You decide to put in your bid “at the market.” The broker transmits your order through the computer and into the New York Stock Exchange.
The New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) is the oldest and most prestigious stock exchange in the world, located just off Wall Street at 82 Broad Street, in a fancy building with Greek columns in front that reminds you of a courthouse or a post office. There are other stock exchanges, but the NYSE is where Disney is “listed”—meaning that shares of Disney are always on sale there.
If you’re in New York sometime and you’ve got nothing better to do, the NYSE is worth a visit. The tour begins in a room full of photos and display boxes where you can push buttons and learn the story of how the stock market got started under a tree in 1790. You’ll hear about how the pioneer speculators and horse traders stood under this tree in the open air, buying and selling horses, wheat, sugar, you name it, in a noisy, nonstop auction. After the Revolutionary War was won by our side, these traders got the chance to auction off the IOUs issued by the government to pay for the war. This so-called scrip was the first financial commodity ever sold in a marketplace in the United States.
Long before that, a wall was built along Wall Street to keep invaders out, which is how the street got its name. The traders under the tree were a hardy bunch, but after a while they got tired of standing out in the rain and snow, so they moved indoors to the local coffeehouses, where at least they had a roof over their heads. As business picked up, they rented space in nearby basements and lofts until they found a long-term rental and stayed there. In 1864, they built the building that’s been the home of the NYSE ever since. It’s no more than a Frisbee toss from the spot where the original tree once stood.
After you’ve walked past the photos and the displays, and you’ve listened to a short spiel from a tour guide, you can head for the visitors’ gallery, which is the most interesting part. You’re looking down through a giant picture window, with a bird’s-eye view of the trading floor one hundred feet below, where all the action takes place. The trading floor looks as long as a football field, and just as hectic and noisy as a stadium on game day.
The players on the stock exchange are dressed in sneakers and multicolored lab coats, which are their uniforms. Hundreds of them are scurrying around, waving their arms and shouting to get one another’s attention, and the ones that aren’t scurrying are standing in huddles at different spots on the floor, called posts. At each post, there’s an overhead TV set, hung from a maze of girders and pipes that looks like exposed plumbing. It’s around these monitors underneath the exposed plumbing that the shares of more than twenty-five hundred different companies are being bought and sold while you watch.
You can see the Disney post from your perch in the visitors’ gallery, and if you took the elevator downstairs and managed to sneak past the security guards, you could be on the trading floor in no time, wading into the crowd to purchase a share of Disney in person. But it doesn’t work that way. Your order has to come in through the brokerage house to the traders in the lab coats. They do the actual buying and selling, sometimes for themselves, but mostly for customers like you, who have sent in their orders from all over the world.
The basic routine at the post hasn’t changed for decades. The best way to think of it is as a nonstop auction where the same item is continuously brought up for sale. In this case, the item is Disney stock.
Let’s say a trader at the Disney post yells out “1,000 at $497/8.” That means one of his customers wants to sell 1,000 shares of Disney for $497/8 apiece. If another trader at the post has a customer who wants to buy 1,000 shares at $497/8, the two traders make a deal. But it doesn’t always happen that way. It may be that nobody wants to pay that price at that particular moment. So the trader who’s selling the Disney has to lower the price to $493/4 or perhaps to $491/2, until he can attract a buyer.
Or it may be that there are buyers at $497/8, but nobody wants to sell at that price. In that case, the buyers have to raise their bids to $50 or $501/8, and so forth, until the bid gets high enough to attract a seller.
It goes on like this from 9:30 A.M. when the market opens to 4:00 P.M. when it closes, the prices of shares bobbing up and down from one minute to the next as the auction continues. A person called the “specialist” stands at the post in the middle of this commotion, listening to the bids and the offers, watching for the signals, matching the buyers with the sellers and keeping track of every deal.
At present, more than 1 million shares of Disney are bought and sold on the NYSE every day, along with 338 million plus shares of stock in the other twenty-six hundred listed companies. You may wonder how the lone Disney specialist standing at the post could possibly handle this volume of business. The answer is, he can’t.
Although most investors are not aware of it, 85 percent of the orders arrive at specialists’ posts via computer. Computers are handling more transactions both on the stock exchanges and off the stock exchanges. The trading departments of the Wall Street investment houses use computers to make trades directly with other trading departments. When you look down on the trading floor from the visitors’ gallery, you’re seeing a colorful spectacle that is fast becoming obsolete.
With a good computer network, you don’t need hundreds of people running around wearing out their sneakers and yelling themselves hoarse. All the bidding for stocks can take place on a screen, and most of it already does.
The NYSE has a special matchmaking system for small transactions such as yours. Your buy order for Disney is sent directly into the NYSE computer, where it is automatically matched with a sell order that comes in from somebody else.
Stock transactions are entirely anonymous. Unlike the deals you make at flea markets or garage sales, in a stock deal, you never come face-to-face with the other party. Maybe it’s just as well, because then you don’t have to sit there and listen to the seller of the Disney shares telling you why he’s getting rid of them, the way you do when you buy a used car from a neighbor.
There could be many reasons why the other party to the transaction is selling the stock that you’re buying. Maybe he needs the money to pay a college tuition bill, or to repaint the house, or to take a vacation. Maybe he doesn’t like the latest Disney movies, and he’s not as optimistic as you are about the future of the company. Or maybe he’s found another stock he’d rather own. But whatever his motivation for selling, it shouldn’t matter to you. If you’ve done your homework, you know why you’re buying.
After the computer has made a match between you and a seller, the news of the sale will move across the electronic tickertape that runs across the bottom of your TV screen on the financial networks. Have you ever watched that continuous string of numbers? Every one is the record of an actual stock deal. For instance, “DIS 50, $50,” means that 50 shares of Disney have just been sold at $50 apiece. So if you bought 50 shares at $50, the world would know about it, because your little “DIS 50, $50” would flash across on the TV screens and electronic display monitors in brokerage houses and investment companies from Boston to Beijing.
Andy Warhol, the famous painter of the Campbell’s Soup can (another great public company!), once said that with all the media around us, every person would be famous for fifteen minutes. Warhol was only joking, but every stock trade of fifty shares or more gets its five seconds of international fame.
Other Places Stocks Are Traded
A hundred years ago, there were many stock exchanges in the United States besides the big two, the NYSE and the American. Milwaukee had one, and so did San Francisco, Philadelphia, Des Moines, and Dallas. A stock fan could spend vacations riding around the country visiting the action, the way a baseball fan sees games at different ballparks. But the smaller exchanges gradually lost their importance. Most have disappeared.
Today’s big two are the NYSE and the NASDAQ, which is pronounced “nazzdack.” NASDAQ stands for the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations System. You could stump a lot of people on this one—What does NASDAQ stand for?—because many professionals on Wall Street couldn’t tell you. It’s a mouthful, which is why you never hear anybody use the full name.
It used to be that companies that were too small to be listed on the regular stock exchanges sold their shares in neighborhood stock shops, where the deals were done across a counter. A buyer in Detroit might pay 10 to 20 percent more for the same stock purchased the same day in San Antonio because there was no tickertape where people could track the latest prices. The over-the-counter market was a favorite with gamblers and wild speculators, but the average investor was smart to stay away from it.
The managers of the over-the-counter market were among the first to see how computers could revolutionize stock trading. They realized they didn’t need a gigantic trading floor like the one at the NYSE. They didn’t need a fancy building, or hundreds of traders in lab coats running around waving their arms. All they needed was a few computer terminals and enough people to sit in front of the terminals and make the trades on their screens. Presto, NASDAQ had its own electronic trading floor. Technically, it’s not an exchange. It’s a computer network.
When you want to buy shares of a company that trades on NASDAQ, say Microsoft, your broker sends your order into the NASDAQ computer system, where it shows up on the screen with all the other orders from people who want to buy or sell Microsoft. The NASDAQ “market maker” sits at a terminal in his or her own office, which could be anywhere in the country, and puts the transactions together.
Whereas a specialist at the NYSE has to stand at his post all day and may get cramps in his legs, the NASDAQ market maker can work from a easy chair. And whereas the NYSE specialist plays the role of matchmaker, the NASDAQ market maker puts himself in the middle of every stock trade. He buys the shares from the seller and turns right around and sells those shares to the buyer, at a slightly higher price. The difference is his profit, called the “spread.”
In the twenty-five years since it was created, the NASDAQ system has grown very fast, and today it is the major rival of the NYSE and the second-busiest stock market in the country. Many tiny and obscure companies that got their start on the NASDAQ exchange in the 1970s and the 1980s—Microsoft, Apple Computer, MCI, Intel, and so forth—have become corporate giants that employ thousands of workers, sell billions of dollars’ worth of products, and are famous around the world. They still trade on NASDAQ.
Reading the Stock Pages
The day after you buy your shares of Disney, you will rush to the newspaper and open it to the business pages to find out how much it is worth. That’s what shareholders do every morning. It’s their first important activity, after they’ve taken a shower, brushed their teeth, put on their clothes, and poured themselves a cup of coffee.
One way to tell who the investors are is by watching them read the paper. Investors don’t start with the comics, or sports, or Ann Landers, the way other readers do. They head straight for the business section, and run their finger down the columns of stocks searching for yesterday’s closing prices on the companies they own.
Their mood can change in a second, depending on what they see there. Maybe you’ve observed this in your own household. You’re sitting at the breakfast table and your father is scanning the stock tables (usually, it’s a father who does this, although more and more women are taking an interest). If he gets a sour look on his face and tells you for the umpteenth time not to leave the bathroom light on because it wastes electricity, which wastes money, you can be pretty sure he just found out his stocks went down. On the other hand, if he starts humming “Hail to the Chief” and offers to increase your allowance, or says he’ll pay for the limo to drive you to the prom, you can be pretty sure his stocks went up.
During business hours, when the stock exchanges are open and shares are changing hands at a rapid rate, the prices rise and fall minute by minute. But just before the closing bell rings at 4:00 P.M., and the trading stops, every stock has its last trade of the day. It’s the price of this last trade, called the closing price, that gets quoted in the papers the next morning. That’s what investors are looking for when they turn to the business section and scan those pages of numbers, arranged in lines that appear like this:


365-DayHigh-Low
Stock
Div
Yld%
P/E
Sales
High
Low
Last
Chg


627/8
DISNEY
.36
0.625
23
11090
573/4
563/4
575/8
+1/4


373/4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


A lot of information is packed into this tiny space. The name of the stock, DISNEY, appears in the second column from the left, under “Stock.” In the first column, “365-Day High-Low,” you see two numbers, 627/8 and 373/4. These represent dollars, $627/8 and $373/4. What you find out here is that $627/8 is the highest price anybody has paid for a share of Disney in the last twelve months, and $373/4 is the lowest price. So there’s a wide range of prices that people will pay for the same stock.
In fact, the average stock on the New York Stock Exchange moves up and down approximately 57 percent from its base price in any given year. More incredible than that, one in every three stocks traded on the NYSE moves up and down 50 to 100 percent from the base price each year, and about 8 percent of the stocks rise and fall 100 percent or more. A stock might start out the year selling for $12, rise to $16 during an optimistic stretch, and fall to $8 during a pessimistic stretch. That’s a 100 percent move: from $16 to $8. Clearly, some investors pay a lot less than others for the same company in the same year.
You’ll also notice that stock prices are quoted in fractions instead of the usual decimals, so $37.75 becomes $373/4. This old-fashioned numbering system dates back to the Spaniards, who divided their money into eighths—that’s why parrots in the pirate movies are always squawking about “pieces of eight.”
Wall Street has kept up the practice of doing its calculations in eighths, so instead of hearing that such-and-such a stock is “up ten cents today,” you’ll hear that it’s up “an eighth of a point,” and instead of “up twenty-five cents,” it’s up “a quarter of a point.” A “point” is Wall-Streetese for “dollar.”
In the four columns to the far right, “High,” “Low,” “Last,” and “Chg” (Change), you get a recap of what happened in yesterday’s trading. In this case, nothing much. The highest price anybody paid for Disney during this particular session was $573/4, and the lowest was $563/4, and the last sale of the day was made at $575/8. That was the closing price that everybody was looking for in the newspaper. It was up $0.25 from the closing price of the day before, which is why +1/4 appears in the “Chg” column.
Directly to the right of the word “Stock” is “Div,” which stands for “dividend.” Dividends are a company’s way of rewarding the people who buy their stock. Some companies pay big dividends, some pay small dividends, and some pay no dividend at all. You’ll learn more about dividends later.
The number shown here, .36, means “thirty-six cents.” That’s Disney’s current annual dividend—you get thirty-six cents for each share you own.
In the column under the next heading, “Yld %” (Yield), you get more information about the dividend, so you can compare it, say, to the yield from a savings account or bond. Here, they’ve taken Disney’s thirty-six-cent annual payout and divided it by the closing stock price ($575/8). The result is 0.625 percent—the return you’re getting on your money if you invest in Disney at the current price.
This 0.625 percent is a very low return, as compared to the 3 percent that savings accounts are paying these days. Disney is not a stock you’d buy just for the dividend.
To the right of “Yld,” there’s “P/E.” “P/E” is an abbreviation for “price-earnings ratio.” You get the p/e ratio by dividing the price of a stock by the company’s annual earnings. But there’s no need to do the math yourself, because the p/e can be found in the paper every day.
When people are considering whether to buy a particular company, the p/e helps them figure out if the stock is cheap or expensive. P/e ratios vary from industry to industry, and to some extent from company to company, so the simplest way to use this tool is to compare a company’s current p/e ratio to the historical norm.
In today’s market, the p/e of the average stock is about 16, and Disney’s p/e of 23 makes it a bit expensive relative to the average stock. But since Disney’s p/e ratio has moved from 12 to 40 over the past fifteen years, a p/e of 23 for Disney is not out of line, historically. It is more expensive than the average stock because the company has been a terrific performer.
Finally, there’s “Sales”: the number of shares that were bought and sold in yesterday’s session at the stock exchange. You always multiply this number by 100, so the 11,090 tells us that 1.1 million shares of Disney changed hands. It’s not crucial to know this, but it makes you realize that the stock market is a very busy place.
When you add the three major exchanges (NYSE, American, and NASDAQ) together, the volume of trading reaches a half billion shares a day.
Thanks to home computers and the electronic tickertape, people no longer have to wait for tomorrow’s newspaper to check their stocks. During the day, they can watch the tape on TV, or call up the stock prices on their computers, or call an 800 number and get the prices that way. There’s even a hand-held cellular receiver, connected to a satellite, that investors can carry anywhere—on a rafting trip, an ocean cruise, or a mountain-climbing expedition.
All this technology has a drawback: It can get you too worked up about the daily gyrations. Letting your emotions go up and down in sympathy with stocks can be a very exhausting form of exercise, and it doesn’t do you any good. Whether Disney rises, falls, or goes sideways today, tomorrow, or next month isn’t worth worrying about if you are a long-term investor.
The Perks of Ownership
Stocks are very democratic. They have no prejudices. They don’t care who they belong to. Black or white, male or female, foreign or native, saint or sinner, it doesn’t matter. It’s not like a fancy country club, where before you can join you have to pass the membership committee. If you want to buy a share and become an owner of the public company of your choice, the company can’t stop you. And once you’ve become a shareholder, they can never kick you out.
If you own just one share of Disney, you enjoy the same basic rights and privileges as the owner of a million shares. You’ll be invited to attend the annual meeting, held at the original Disneyland in Anaheim, California, where you can sit next to Wall Street pros and listen to the top Disney executives explain their strategy. You’ll get free coffee and doughnuts and the chance to cast your vote on important matters, such as who will sit on Disney’s board of directors.

    
    

Here are some examples of the freebies, goodies, and so forth, shareholders of certain companies receive as a bonus for owning the stock.


COMPANY
PERKS


Ralston Purina
Discounts on lodging, ski rental at company’s Keystone Resort in Colorado


Wrigley’s
Each shareholder gets 20 free packs of gum every year


Disney
30 percent discount at theme parks and on merchandise if you join the Gold Card Program


Tandy
10 percent off at Radio Shack stores during Christmas holidays


3M
Free gift package including tape and Post-It note paper


Colgate-Palmolive
$15 in discount coupons


Supercuts
$3 off coupon on haircuts


Marriott
$10 off on weekends at some Marriott hotels


Source: Free Lunch on Wall Street, by Charles Carlson, McGraw-Hill, 1993
These directors are not employees of Disney, nor do they answer to the bosses of the company. They make strategic decisions, and they keep tabs on what the bosses are doing. Ultimately, the company exists for the shareholders, and the directors are there to represent the shareholders’ interests.
Public companies use a one-vote-one-share system in their elections, so if you own one share of Disney, your one vote isn’t going to count for much against the million votes cast by people who own a million shares. Nevertheless, the company takes each vote quite seriously. It realizes that most shareholders can’t interrupt their lives and travel to the annual meeting where important issues are decided, so it sends out absentee ballots. If you forget to fill yours out, they send you a reminder.
Any time you decide you don’t like the management, its policies, or the direction the company is headed, you are always free to exercise the ultimate “no” vote and sell your shares.
Four times a year, you’ll get the report card that tells you how the company is doing, how its sales are going, and how much money it has made or lost in the latest period. Once a year, the company sends out the annual report that sums up the year in great detail. Most of these annual reports are printed on fancy paper with several pages of photographs. It’s easy to mistake them for an upscale magazine.
In the front, there’s a personal message from the head of the company, recounting the year’s events, but the real story is in the numbers. These run for several pages, and unless you are trained to read them, they will surely strike you as both confusing and dull. You can get the necessary training from a good accounting course. Once you do, these dull numbers can become very exciting, indeed. What could be more exciting than learning to decipher a code that could make you a prosperous investor for life?
Companies are required to send out all the reports. They can’t say they forgot to write one, or that the dog ate it along with the homework. They can’t cancel the annual meeting, or make up an excuse for not calling one. They can’t hide the facts, no matter how unpleasant those facts may be. They must tell the whole story, good and bad, so every shareholder knows exactly what’s happening. It’s the law.
If there’s a foul-up on the assembly line, or products aren’t selling and the company is losing money, or the CEO runs off with the cash box, or somebody files a nasty lawsuit against it, the company must tell all.
In politics, it’s common practice for elected officials and candidates alike to stretch the truth to bolster their point of view. When a politician distorts the facts, we say that’s politics. But when a company distorts the facts, it’s a scandal on Wall Street.
Companies that intentionally mislead their shareholders (this rarely happens) face severe penalties, and the perpetrators can be fined or sent to jail. Even if it’s unintentional (a more common occurrence), a company that misleads shareholders is punished in the stock market. As soon as they realize it hasn’t told them the whole truth, many big-time investors will sell their shares at once. This mass selling causes the stock price to drop. It’s not unusual for share prices to fall by half in a single day after the news of the scandal gets out.
When a stock loses half its value overnight, that disturbs all the investors, including the corporate insiders, from the chief executive on down, who are likely to own large numbers of shares. That’s why it’s in their best interest to make sure the company sticks to the facts and doesn’t exaggerate. They know the truth will come out sooner or later, because companies are watched by hundreds, if not thousands of shareholders. A baseball player can’t brag about his .320 average when all the fans who read the box scores every day know he’s hitting .220. It’s the same on Wall Street. A company can’t brag about its record-breaking earnings if the earnings aren’t there—too many investors are paying close attention.
That Dirty Word—Profit
Companies are in business for one basic reason. No matter whether they are public or private, owned by a single shareholder or a million shareholders, the goal is the same. They want to make a profit.
Profit is the money that’s left over after all the bills are paid. It can be divided among the owners of any business, whether it’s General Electric, Pepsico, Marvel Comics, or the car wash you run on weekends in your driveway. You wouldn’t want to stand out in the hot sun with a bucket and a soapy sponge if you didn’t expect to come away with a profit. Maybe you enjoy washing cars because you can hose yourself down every once in a while and it keeps you cool in the summertime, but that doesn’t mean you’d do it for free.
The same is true of people who own shares in companies. They’re not doing it just for the fun of getting invited to the annual meeting, or getting a copy of the annual report sent to them in the mail. They’re doing it because they expect the company in which they own shares to make a profit and to pass along some of that profit to them, sooner or later.
There’s a mistaken idea still floating around that people who do things for profit are being greedy or underhanded, and they’re trying to pull a fast one on the rest of society, because whenever one person makes a bundle, it’s at the expense of everybody else.
A generation ago, there were more subscribers to this idea than there are today, but it’s still lurking in the backs of more than a few minds. That one man’s gain is another man’s pain was the basic doctrine of communism, and it was also fashionable among socialists on college campuses and elsewhere, who never missed a chance to accuse capitalists of putting themselves first and everybody else last, and of getting rich on the sore backs of the wage earners.
Earlier we mentioned Adam Smith’s book The Wealth of Nations, which is still popular two hundred years later. You might want to take a crack at it. As long as we have capitalism and the profit motive, Smith’s Invisible Hand is there to guide the money to the places where it can do the most good.
Personal computers are a recent example of the Invisible Hand in action. When PCs were invented and people became attracted to them, a slew of new companies was formed, and investors lined up to buy shares and sink billions of dollars into the computer industry. The result was better and faster computers that could be manufactured more cheaply, and the fierce competition kept the costs down. The fierce competition also put a lot of companies out of business, but the ones that survived made the best products at the lowest prices.
It’s not only in the animal world that we have survival of the fittest. It happens in the capitalist world as well. Profitable companies with good management are rewarded in the stock market, because when a company does well, the stock price goes up. This makes investors happy, including the managers and employees who own shares.
In a poorly managed company, the results are mediocre, and the stock price goes down, so bad management is punished. A decline in the stock price makes investors angry, and if they get angry enough, they can pressure the company to get rid of the bad managers and take other actions to restore the company’s profitability.
When all is said and done, a highly profitable company can attract more investment capital than a less profitable company. With the extra money it gets, the highly profitable company is nourished and made stronger, and it has the resources to expand and grow. The less profitable company has trouble attracting capital, and it may wither and die for lack of financial nourishment.
The fittest survive and the weakest go out of business, so no more money is wasted on them. With the weakest out of the way, the money flows to those who can make better use of it.
All employees everywhere ought to be rooting for profit, because if the company they work for doesn’t make one, they’ll soon be out of a job. Profit is a sign of achievement. It means somebody has produced something of value that other people are willing to buy. The people who make the profit are motivated to repeat their success on a grander scale, which means more jobs and more profits for others.
If there is any truth to the charge that capitalists and investors are selfish and greedy, thinking only of fattening their own bankrolls, why is the wealthiest country in the world also the most charitable? Americans are found at the top of the money-giving chart, and individuals do most of the giving. In 1994, for instance, U.S. residents pulled $105 billion from their own pockets to help the homeless and the infirm, the jobless and the elderly, the hospitals and the churches, the museums and the schools, the veterans and United Way, Jerry’s Kids and a host of other good causes.
Capitalism is not a zero-sum game. Except for a few crooks, the rich do not get that way by making other people poor. When the rich get richer, the poor get richer as well. If it were really true that the rich get richer at the expense of the poor, then since we’re the richest country in the world, by now we surely would have created the most desperate class of poor people on earth. Instead, we’ve done just the opposite.
There is substantial poverty in America, but it doesn’t come close to matching the poverty you’ll see in parts of India, Latin America, Africa, Asia, or Eastern Europe where capitalism is just beginning to take hold. When companies succeed and become more profitable, it means more jobs and less poverty, the opposite of what the government has been telling us.
The Growth Factory
Every person who owns shares in a company wants it to grow. That doesn’t mean it gets too big for its britches and has to move to a larger building, although moving to a larger building is a sign of growth. It means the profits are growing. The company will earn more money this year than last year, just as it earned more money last year than the year before that. When investors talk about “growth,” they’re not talking about size. They’re talking about profitability, that is, earnings.
If you wash three cars for $6 each, and you spent $2 on a plastic bottle of soap and $1 on a new sponge, you’ve earned $15—the $18 you got for doing the job minus $3 for the materials. Wash another five cars with the same soap and the same sponge, and you’ll earn another $30, with no additional cost for the materials. Your earnings have just tripled. That’s more cash in your pocket so you can buy CDs, movie tickets, new clothes, or more shares of stock.
A company doubling its earnings in twelve months can cause a wild celebration on Wall Street, because it’s very rare for a business to grow that fast. Big, established companies are happy to see their earnings increase by 10 to 15 percent a year, and younger, more energetic companies may be able to increase theirs by 25 to 30 percent, but one way or the other, the name of the game is earnings. That’s what the shareholders are looking for, and that’s what makes the stocks go up.
Think of it this way. You’ve got a friend who’s starting a rock group. The friend needs money for some music equipment. So he makes you the following offer. If you put up $1,000 for the high-powered amplifier, he’ll give you 10 percent ownership in the band. The two of you sign a paper to this effect.
Before the band squawks its first squawk, it looks as if you’ve made a dumb deal. It cost you $1,000 for 10 percent ownership in a group whose only asset is the amplifier you paid for. At this point, you’re getting a 10 percent stake in your own amplifier. But let’s say the rock group is hired by a local club to play the Friday night dances at $200 a week. Now the band has a value that goes beyond the amplifier. It has earnings. Your 10 percent of the earnings will pay you $20 a week.
Then if the band makes a hit with the crowd and gets a raise to $400, the earnings double overnight, and all of a sudden you’re getting $40 a week.
By this time, the piece of paper you’ve got is no longer worthless. You could probably sell it if you wanted to. But if you believe in this rock group, you’ll hold on to your shares, because someday the band might cut a record and get on MTV and become the next Pearl Jam or Hootie and the Blowfish. If that happens, you’ll be making thousands of dollars a week from the earnings, and your 10 percent stake will be worth far more than you could have dreamed at the time you provided the amplifier.
People who buy shares in Disney, or Reebok, or any other public company do it for the same reason you’d invest in a rock group. They’re counting on Disney, Reebok, or whatever to increase their earnings, and they expect that a portion of these earnings will get back to them in the form of higher stock prices.
This simple point—that the price of a stock is directly related to a company’s earning power—is often overlooked, even by sophisticated investors. The tickertape watchers begin to think stock prices have a life of their own. They track the ups and downs, the way a bird watcher might track a fluttering duck. They study the trading patterns, making charts of every zig and zag. They try to fathom what the “market” is doing, when they ought to be following the earnings of the companies whose stocks they own.
If earnings continue to rise, the stock price is destined to go up. Maybe it won’t go up right away, but eventually it will rise. And if the earnings go down, it’s a pretty safe bet the price of the stock will go down. Lower earnings make a company less valuable, just like the rock band that loses its audience and stops selling records.
This is the starting point for the successful stockpicker: Find companies that can grow their earnings over many years to come. It’s not by accident that stocks in general rise in price an average of about 8 percent a year over the long term. That occurs because companies in general increase their earnings at 8 percent a year, on average, plus they pay 3 percent as a dividend.
Based on these assumptions, the odds are in your favor when you invest in a representative sample of companies. Some will do better than others, but in general, they’ll increase earnings by 8 percent and pay you a dividend of 3 percent, and you’ll arrive at your 11 percent annual gain.
By itself, the price of a stock doesn’t tell you a thing about whether you’re getting a good deal. You’ll hear people say: “I’m avoiding IBM, because at $100 a share it’s too expensive.” It may be that they don’t have $100 to spend on a share of IBM, but the fact that a share costs $100 has nothing to do with whether IBM is expensive. A $150,000 Lamborghini is out of most people’s price range, but for a Lamborghini, it still might not be expensive. Likewise, a $100 share of IBM may be a bargain, or it may not be. It depends on IBM’s earnings.
If IBM is earning $10 a share this year, then you’re paying 10 times earnings when you buy a share for $100. That’s a p/e ratio of 10, which in today’s market is cheap. On the other hand, if IBM only earns $1 a share, then you’re paying 100 times earnings when you buy that $100 share. That’s a p/e ratio of 100, which is way too much to pay for IBM.
The p/e ratio is a complicated subject that merits further study, if you are serious about picking your own stocks. But while we’re on the topic, here are some pointers about p/e’s.
If you take a large group of companies, add their stock prices together, and divide by their earnings, you get an average p/e ratio. On Wall Street they do this with the Dow Jones Industrials, the S&P 500 stocks, and other such indexes. The result is known as the “market multiple” or “what the market is selling for.”
The market multiple is a useful thing to be aware of, because it tells you how much investors are willing to pay for earnings at any given time. The market multiple goes up and down, but it tends to stay within the boundaries of 10 and 20. The stock market in mid-1995 had an average p/e ratio of about 16, which meant that stocks in general weren’t cheap, but they weren’t outrageously expensive, either.
In general, the faster a company can grow its earnings, the more investors will pay for those earnings. That’s why aggressive young companies have p/e ratios of 20 or higher. People are expecting great things from these companies and are willing to pay a higher price to own the shares. Older, established companies have p/e ratios in the mid to low teens. Their stocks are cheaper relative to earnings, because established companies are expected to plod along and not do anything spectacular.
Some companies steadily increase their earnings—they are the growth companies. Others are erratic earners, the rags-to-riches types. They are the cyclicals—the autos, the steels, the heavy industries that do well only in certain economic climates. Their p/e ratios are lower than the p/e’s of steady growers, because their performance is erratic. What they will earn from one year to the next depends on the condition of the economy, which is a hard thing to predict, as you’ll see in Chapter Four.
That a company earns a lot of money doesn’t necessarily mean the stockholders will benefit. The next big question is: What does the company plan to do with this money? Basically, it has four choices.
It can plow the money back into the business, in effect investing in itself. It uses this money to open more stores or build new factories and grow its earnings even faster than before. In the long run, this is highly beneficial to the stockholders. A fast-growing company can take every dollar and make a 20 percent return on it. That’s far more than you or I could get by putting that dollar in the bank.
Or it can waste the money on corporate jets, teak-paneled offices, marble in the executive bathrooms, executive salaries that are double the going rate, or buying other companies and paying too much for them. Such unnecessary purchases are bad for stockholders and can ruin what otherwise would be a very good investment.
Or a company can buy back its own shares and take them off the market. Why would any company want to do such a thing? Because with fewer shares on the market, the remaining shares become more valuable. Share buybacks can be very good for the stockholders, especially if the company is buying its own shares at a cheap price.
Finally, the company can pay a dividend. A majority of companies do this. Dividends are not entirely a positive thing—a company that pays one is giving up the chance to invest that money in itself. Nevertheless, dividends are very beneficial to shareholders.
A dividend is a company’s way of paying you to own the stock. The money gets sent to you directly on a regular basis—it’s the only one of our four options in which the company’s profits go directly into your pocket. If you need income while you’re holding on to the stock, the dividend does the trick. Or you can use the dividend to buy more shares.
Dividends also have a psychological benefit. In a bear market or a correction, no matter what happens to the price of the stock, you’re still collecting the dividend. This gives you an extra reason not to sell in a panic.
Millions of investors buy dividend-paying stocks and nothing else. If you are interested in this kind of investing, you might want to get in touch with Moody’s Investors Service, a Wall Street research firm. Among other things, Moody’s compiles a list of companies that have raised their dividends for many years in a row. One company has been doing it for fifty years, and more than three hundred have been doing it for ten.
The list appears in Moody’s Handbook of Dividend Achievers, along with a complete statistical rundown on each of the companies that have gotten into this dividend-raising habit. To order the latest copy of this book, call Moody’s at 1-800-342-5647.
How to Catch a Twelve-Bagger
If you’re going to invest in a stock, you have to know the story. This is where investors get themselves in trouble. They buy a stock without knowing the story, and they track the stock price, because that’s the only detail they understand. When the price goes up, they think the company is in great shape, but when the price stalls or goes down, they get bored or they lose faith, so they sell their shares.
Confusing the price with the story is the biggest mistake an investor can make. It causes people to bail out of stocks during crashes and corrections, when the prices are at their lowest, which they think means that the companies they own must be in lousy shape. It causes them to miss the chance to buy more shares when the price is low, but the company is still in terrific shape.
The story tells you what’s happening inside the company to produce profits in the future—or losses, if it’s a tale of woe. It’s not always easy to figure this out. Some stories are more complicated than others. Companies that have many different divisions are harder to follow than companies that make a single product. And even when the story is simple, it may not be conclusive.
But there are occasions when the picture is clear and the average investor is in a perfect position to see how exciting it is. These are the times when understanding a company can really pay off. Let’s consider two examples from different periods: Nike in 1987, and Johnson & Johnson in 1994.
Nike is a simple business. It makes sneakers. Along with fast food and specialty retailers, this is the sort of company that anybody can follow. (See chart on page 164.) There are three key elements: First, is Nike selling more sneakers this year than last year? Second, is it making decent profit on the sneakers it sells? Third, will it sell more sneakers next year, and the years after that? In 1987, investors got some definite answers, which arrived in the quarterly reports and the annual report sent to every shareholder.
Since going public in 1980, Nike stock had been bouncing all over the place: jumping from $5 in 1984 to $10 in 1986, falling back to $5, rebounding to $10 in 1987. Looking at the scenery for this story, the prospects for sneakers couldn’t have been brighter. Everybody was wearing them: toddlers, teenagers, even adults who hadn’t worn sneakers since they were kids. There were different sneakers for tennis, jogging, basketball, you name it. It was obvious the demand for sneakers was growing, and Nike was a big supplier.
Yet the company had run into a rough stretch where its sales, earnings, and future sales were all declining. This was a very depressing turn of events, as shareholders found out when they received their first-quarter 1987 report. (As is the custom with many companies, Nike’s year begins in June, so the first quarter of 1987 ends in August 1986.) If you owned Nike, you got the news in the mail in early October 1986. Sales were down 22 percent, earnings down 38 percent, and “futures” (future orders) down 39 percent. This was not a good time to buy more shares of Nike.
The second-quarter report was mailed out January 6, 1987. The results were just as bad as those in the first quarter, and the third quarter wasn’t much better. Then lo and behold, in the fourth-quarter report, which arrived in late July 1987 along with the annual report, there was a positive note. Sales were still down, but only by 3 percent; earnings were still down; but future orders had turned up. This meant that stores around the world were buying more Nike sneakers. They wouldn’t be doing that unless they thought they could sell more Nike sneakers.
By reading the annual report of that year, you would also have learned that in spite of its several quarters of declining earnings, Nike was still making a nice profit. That’s because sneakers are a very low-cost business. It’s not like the steel business, where you have to build and maintain expensive factories. In the sneaker business, all you need is a big room and a bunch of sewing machines and relatively inexpensive materials. Nike had plenty of cash on hand and was in excellent financial shape.
When you opened the first-quarter report of 1988, which arrived in late September 1987, you could hardly believe your eyes. Sales were up 10 percent, earnings up 68 percent, and future orders up 61 percent. This was proof that Nike was on a roll. In fact, the roll lasted for five more years: twenty straight quarters of higher sales and higher earnings.
In September 1987, you didn’t know yet about the twenty straight quarters. You were happy the company had turned itself around, but you weren’t rushing out to buy more stock. You were worried about the price, which had moved up sharply from $7 to $12.50.
So you awaited further developments, and this time you got. lucky. Stock prices came tumbling down in the Crash of October 1987. Investors who confuse the stock price with the story were selling everything they owned, including their Nike shares. They heard commentators on the nightly news predict a worldwide collapse of the financial markets.
In the midst of this pandemonium, you kept your head, because you realized the Nike story was getting better. The Crash gave you a gift: the opportunity to buy more shares of Nike at a bargain price.
The stock dropped to $7 after the Crash and sat at that level for eight days, so you had plenty of time to call your broker. From there, it began a five-year climb to $90, while the story kept getting better. By the end of 1992, Nike shares were worth twelve times more than you’d paid for them in 1987. That’s your twelve-bagger.
Even if you missed buying Nike for $7 a share after the Crash, you could have bought it three months, six months, or a year later as the quarterly reports you received in the mail continued to show good numbers. Instead of making twelve times your money, you would have made ten, or eight, or six times your money.

    Nike


    
        
        
        
        

Nike—How to Catch a Twelve-Bagger


 
Dates
Results
Stock Price


Q1 FY87
Q ends August 31, 1986
Shareholder update mailed
September 30, 1986
Sales –22%
Earnings –38%
Futures –39%
9/30/86—$5.50
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$5.25-$7.87


Q2 FY87
Q ends November 30, 1986
Shareholder update mailed
January 6, 1987
Sales –22%
Earnings –47%
Futures –35%
1/6/87—$5.88
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$5.75-$7.50


Q3 FY87
Q ends February 28, 1987
Shareholder update mailed
March 25, 1987
Sales –23%
Earnings –60%
Futures –19%
3/25/87—$9.25
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$7.00-$9.50


Q4 FY87
Q ends May 31, 1987
Shareholder update mailed
July 21, 1987
Sales –3%
Earnings –16%
Futures +6%
7/21/87—$9.38
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$8.12-$11.25


Q1 FY88
Q ends August 31, 1987
Shareholder update mailed
September 21, 1987
Sales +10%
Earnings +68%
Futures +61%
9/21/87—$11.13
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$7.00-$12.50


Q2 FY88
Q ends November 30, 1987
Shareholder update mailed
December 21, 1987
Sales +28%
Earnings +115%
Futures +74%
12/21/87—$9.88
Range for 3 months following end of Q—
$7.50-$11.50


Johnson & Johnson
A more recent example of a clear-cut story that any investor could follow is Johnson & Johnson. Peter Lynch was on to this one, not that it took any particular genius to figure it out. If you had seen the 1993 annual report, you would have arrived at the same conclusion: Invest in this company.
The 1993 annual report was mailed out on March 10, 1994. The first thing you noticed on the inside cover was the fate of the stock over the past couple of years. It had been dropping steadily from about $57 at the end of 1991. At the time the report arrived, the stock had fallen to $395/8.
For such a great company to have produced such a lousy stock in a rising market, you suspected that something had to be wrong. You scanned the annual report for the bad news, but everywhere you looked, there was good news, much of it summarized on page forty-two. The earnings had gone up steadily for ten years in a row and had quadrupled during that period. The sales had risen steadily as well.
The company also mentioned it had raised the dividend ten years in a row, but neglected to mention a more incredible fact: It had raised the dividend for thirty-two years in a row. Perhaps Johnson & Johnson was trying to be modest.
Also on page forty-two, you learned that the company had become more productive in recent years. In 1983, Johnson & Johnson, with 77,400 employees, manufactured and sold $6 billion worth of products, while in 1993, with 81,600 employees, it manufactured and sold $14 billion worth of products. That’s more than twice as much manufacturing and selling, with only 4,200 additional employees. From 1989 to 1993, the sales increased from $9.7 billion to $14 billion and the number of employees dropped.
This told you that Johnson & Johnson was getting to be highly efficient and adept at cutting costs. The company’s workers were using their time more effectively. They were producing more value for the company, for the shareholders (although you couldn’t see it in the stock price), and for themselves. Many of the workers owned shares, and even if they didn’t, when sales went up, and profits went up, they got raises.
On pages twenty-five and forty-two, you found out that Johnson & Johnson had been buying back its own shares: 3 million shares in 1993, 110 million shares in a decade. It spent billions of dollars in this effort. When a company takes its own shares off the market in this fashion, the investors are likely to benefit. Fewer shares means higher earnings per share, which leads to a higher stock price. Looking at Johnson & Johnson’s stock price, you wouldn’t think there’d been a buyback.
The balance sheet on page twenty-nine of Johnson & Johnson’s annual report showed that the company had over $900 million in cash and marketable securities, and the company was worth $5.5 billion—its “total equity.” It owed $1.5 billion in long-term debt, a modest amount for a company with $5.5 billion in equity. With this much financial clout, Johnson & Johnson is no threat to go out of business.
By this time, you’re wondering what the flaw in this story is. Could it be that Johnson & Johnson hadn’t prepared itself for the future? The headline on the cover of the annual report suggested otherwise. Right there in big letters it said, “Growth Through New Products.” The text gave the details: 34 percent of the company’s 1993 sales came from products introduced to the market in the last five years.
On page forty-two, you discover that Johnson & Johnson spent more than $1 billion on research and development in 1993—8 percent of sales. The R&D budget had more than doubled in ten years. Obviously, the company was doing what the headline said: growing new products. It hadn’t been caught napping.
To put this story into a larger context, you compared the price of the stock to the earnings. The company was expected to earn $3.10 in 1994, and $3.60 in 1995, giving it a price/earnings ratio of 12 and 11, respectively. Future earnings are always hard to predict, but Johnson & Johnson had had very predictable results in the past. So, if these estimates turned out to be correct, the stock was cheap.
At the time, the average stock was selling for sixteen times its estimated 1995 earnings. Johnson & Johnson was selling for eleven times its estimated 1995 earnings. And Johnson & Johnson was far better than your average company. It was a terrific company, doing everything right: earnings up, sales up, prospects bright. Despite all this, the stock already had dropped to to $395/8, and it dropped further, to nearly $36, in the weeks after the report arrived.
As hard as it was to believe, you reached the inescapable conclusion: There was nothing wrong with Johnson & Johnson to cause the stock price to go down. The company wasn’t the problem, the “health-care scare” was the problem. In 1993, Congress was debating various health-care-reform proposals, including the ones advanced by the Clinton administration. Investors worried that healthcare companies would suffer if the Clinton proposals became law. So they dumped Johnson & Johnson along with the rest of their health-care stocks. The entire industry took a beating in this period.
Some of this concern would have been justified if the Clintons had had their way, but even then Johnson & Johnson would have been affected less than a typical health-care company. On page forty-one of the annual report, you learned that over 50 percent of Johnson & Johnson’s profits came from its international business—the Clinton proposals couldn’t have affected that. Then on page twenty-six you found out that 20 percent of the company’s profits came from shampoo, Band-Aids, and other consumer items that had nothing to do with pharmaceuticals, which the Clintons had targeted for reform. Either way you sliced it, Johnson & Johnson had a limited exposure to the threat that people were worried about.
It didn’t take more than twenty minutes to read that annual report and decide that Johnson & Johnson at $395/8 was one of the bargains of the decade. Johnson & Johnson is not a complicated story. You didn’t have to be a full-time professional investor or a graduate of the Harvard Business School to figure it out.
This was an easy call: The stock was down, while the fundamentals of the company were improving. As in the case of Nike, you didn’t have to rush to buy shares. Peter Lynch recommended Johnson & Johnson in an article in USA Today at the end of 1993, when the stock was selling for $447/8. In the spring of 1994 on Wall Street Week with Louis Rukeyser he recommended it again. By then, the stock was $7 cheaper at $37.
The fact that it had dropped $7 didn’t bother Lynch at all. The latest quarterly report told him that sales and earnings were on the rise, so the story was getting better. It was a perfect chance to buy more shares at the lower price.
Lynch publicly recommended Johnson & Johnson once again in midsummer 1994. The stock had rebounded to $44, but it was still cheap on earnings. By October, 1995, it had risen above $80. The price had doubled in eighteen months.

    Johnson & Johnson

